Deathlike2's FF4 Algorithms FAQ
Version 1.51
dlfaqs@gmail.com
started on 9/24/08
submitted on 1/06/09
------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Introduction
------------

When I saw FF2 (SNES) for the first time, I was in love with the game. I
love all the various incarnations of this game, and it's great seeing the
little differences between the versions. I wrote this algo doc because I've
never seen so much ignorance regarding many different aspects of the game.
It is awful nonetheless, and this should help clear stupid and silly arguments
up.

This document will cover the following versions/ports that will be referenced
in the guide:
FF2   - Final Fantasy 2 (SNES), both revisions 1.0 and 1.1
FF4   - Final Fantasy 4 (Super Famicom, - Japanese)
FF4ET - Final Fantasy 4 Easytype (Super Famicom, - Japanese)*
FF4A  - Final Fantasy 4 Advance, US and Euro versions
(matches up with Jap 1.0 and 1.1 revisions respectively)

*Note: This game is NOT FF2 in Japanese.

When I make reference to the SNES ports, I mean FF2, FF4, and FF4ET unless
a specific version is mentioned.

This info has not been tested or verified with the following versions/ports:
FF4PS - Final Fantasy 4 PSX port (from the FF Anthologies Collection)
FF4WS - Final Fantasy 4 Wonderswan port
FF4DS - Final Fantasy 4 DS port

Onto the good stuff!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Remember that all numbers should be rounded down to the closest integer.

This document is dedicated to BSiron's pretty good Algo FAQ...


1) Physical Damage Algorithm
----------------------------

To properly compute the damage, you need to calculate the basic components
before plugging it in to the main formula. Commands also affected by
this includes Jump, Aim, Build Up/Power/Deadly, and Kick.


Step 1: Compute the Attacker's Base Attack Power
------------------------------------------------

Fists (character is wielding no weapon on their primary hand):

Base Attack Power = Str/4 + Level/4

All Weapons that Don't Involve a Bow and Arrow:

Base Attack Power = Weapon's Attack Power + Str/4 + Level/4

Bow or Arrow in Either Hand:

Base Attack Power = Base Attack Power (Fists) + 1

Bow and Arrow:

Base Attack Power = Bow's Attack Power/2 + Arrow's Attack Power + Str/4

If the bow is in the character's primary hand...

Base Attack Power = Base Attack Power (Bow and Arrow) * 4/5

Yang:

Base Attack Power = (Level+1)*2 + Str/4

Note: Yang ignores the attack power of the weapons he has equipped, though
notably all of his claws have 0 attack power naturally.

Edge (when he has both hands in use):

Base Attack Power = Weapon on Left Hand's Attack Power +
                    Weapon on Right Hand's Attack Power +
                    (Str/4 + Level/4)*2

Note: Shields can be equipped on Edge in FF4A and have 0 attack power.
It is not possible in the SNES version.

Edge (one weapon on either hand):

Base Attack Power = Weapon's Attack Power

Monsters:

Base Attack Power = Monster's Strength

Note: Base Attack Power is always capped at 255.


Step 2: Modify the Base Attack Power
------------------------------------

Attack Power = Base Attack Power

Process the modifications in this order...


Critical Hits:

Monsters cannot deal critical hits.

Characters under Mini/Toad status will not gain an attack power bonus.

The chance of dealing a critical hit is small, probably a 1/32 chance or so.

For most characters dealing a critical hit,
Attack Power = Attack Power + (Weapon's Attack Power/2)

Edge:
Attack Power = Attack Power + Strongest of the Two Weapon's Attack Power/2

Yang:
Attack Power = Attack Power * 3/2

Bow and Arrow (with Bow in recessive hand):
Attack Power = Attack Power + Bow's Attack Power

Bow and Arrow (with Bow in primary hand):
Attack Power = Attack Power + Bow's Attack Power * 4/5

Notes: Jump and Kick will never deal a critical hit.

Some weapons prevent critical hits from occurring at all, and there's a bug
where this bit is not unset when the weapon is removed. This only applies to
the SNES versions of this game.

Critical hits with elementals are handled differently, look further down
to Elemental Attack Power Modifiers for more information.


Status Attack Power Modifiers
-----------------------------

Attacker has Mini/Toad status:

Attack Power = 1

Note: Targets won't deal extra damage on critical hits.

Attacker has Curse status:

Attack Power = Attack Power * 1/2

Attacker has Berserk status:

Attack Power = Attack Power * 3/2

Target has Mini/Toad Status:

Attack Power = Attack Power * 2


Command Attack Power Modifiers
------------------------------

Kick:

For Flan/Pudding monsters...

Attack Power = 0

For everything else...

Attack Power = Attack Power * 1/2

Note: Kick will do no damage to Flan/Pudding monsters, regardless of the
visual.


Jump:

Attack Power = Attack Power * 2

Power:

Attack Power = Attack Power * 2

Deadly:

Attack Power = Attack Power * 3


Elemental Attack Power Modifiers
--------------------------------

There is an elemental priority with weapons dealing elemental damage on
targets. It is not well known that monster attacks are able to deal elemental
damage based on the finished FF4 battle engine, but this is finally taken
advantage of in FF4DS. Anyways, if an elemental matches a weakness or
resistance, it is processed in a particular order, depending on which port
of the game you are playing.

FF4A (GBA)
Immunity > Weakness > Absorb/Resistance

FF2/4/4ET (SNES)
Weakness > Immunity > Absorb/Resistance

Those with the greatest priority will have those modifiers used.

The best example to test this is the FlameDog and Yang's claws. If Yang uses
a Fire Claw, he will expose the resistance of Fire. If Yang uses an Ice Claw,
he will expose the Ice weakness. If Yang uses both an Ice and Fire Claw, he
will still expose the monster's weakness, which takes precedence.

Some monsters have the Weak+/Very Weak property, which makes them take more
damage than normal when exposing their weakness.

It doesn't matter how many elemental weaknesses/resistances one can expose
as the modifications won't stack. Only one of them is processed.

For example, the Arachne monster is weak vs Ice and Wind elementals. Kain
will do the same amount of damage with the Blizzard Spear just like the
IceBrand Sword.

Exposing a monster's elemental weakness and it has the Weak+ property:

Attack Power = Attack Power * 4

Exposing a target's weakness:

Attack Power = Attack Power * 2

Exposing a target's resistance/absorb property:

Attack Power = Attack Power * 1/2

Note: If the monster can Absorb a particular elemental, they also have Drain
resistance. Drain elemental weaponry such as the Drain/Blood Sword are affected
by this.


The immune property is hidden, but is normally visible to use in the form
of the Zombie series of monsters. They have Darkness resistance and the
Immune property. This is the ultimate reason why Cecil does 1 damage. The
formula slightly changes when a critical hit is dealt.

Exposing a target's immune property and a critical hit is dealt:

Attack Power (GBA) = 21
Attack Power (SNES) = 25

Note: This special behavior won't be applied under Mini/Toad status.

Exposing a target's immune property:

Attack Power = 0


Important Note:
---------------

When you have Ice or Fire resistant equipment, they inherently have a weakness
to the opposite elemental. This is easy to negate for magic if you have an
opposing elemental armor pair (eg. Ice Shield and Fire Armor or Fire Shield
and Ice Armor). The problem is that in terms of elemental weaknesses, a
character with the Protect Ring (having both Fire and Ice resistances) is
weak vs the Fire Sword/Flametongue and the IceBrand. This issue has been
changed in FF4A so that you aren't weak anymore, but it is worth noting. No
enemy uses physical elemental attacks, so this normally isn't an issue.

Also, it is also a lesser known behavior that having an armor being resistant
to the Holy elemental is weak vs the Darkness elemental and vice versa. This
is notable since FF4A removes this little known behavior.

This only applies to armor, since monsters don't have to worry about this
behavior at all.


Racial Attack Power Modifiers
-----------------------------

For characters, it is possible to expose more than one racial modifier, but
only one of them will be used (stacking is not possible). Edge equipped with
the Thunder and Fairy/Charm Claws will expose the same multipliers on a
Screamer (Mech and Giant) as if he equipped either one of those claws.

Attack Power = Attack Power * 4

For monsters, it is possible to expose this behavior on characters with,
racial equipment protection but there are a few monsters of multiple races.

Attack Power = Attack Power * 1/2


Step 3: Compute the Attacker's Hit Rate aka Attack% or Precision
----------------------------------------------------------------

Fists:

Base Hit Rate = 50 + Level/4

Any Non-Bow/Arrow Weapons:

Base Hit Rate = Weapon's Hit Rate + Level/4

Bow and Arrow Combos:

Base Hit Rate = Bow's Hit Rate + Level/4

Notes: Arrows are not factored in, and they also have no hit rate.

Hit Rate is capped at 99% for characters.

Monsters:

Base Hit Rate = Monster's Assigned Hit Rate + Monster's Level/4

Note: All monsters have an assigned minimum of 70% hit rate, which can be as
high as 100%. Monsters have a hidden level stat that they are assigned.


Step 4: Factor in the Hit Rate Modifiers
----------------------------------------

Hit Rate = Base Hit Rate

If Aim is being used...

Hit Rate = 255

If Jump/Double Jump or Build Up/Power/Deadly is being used...

Hit Rate = Hit Rate + Level/4

Attacker has Blind/Darkness status:

Hit Rate = Hit Rate * 1/2

If the attacker (character) is in the back row, and the character is not
wielding a back row compatible weapon...

Hit Rate = Hit Rate * 1/2

If the attacker (character) is targeting a monster that is in the back row...

Hit Rate = Hit Rate * 1/2

Note: This is an SNES only behavior as the GBA port has no distinction of
enemy back rows. This behavior is stackable with the previously mentioned
modifier.

If the attacker (monster) is targeting a character that is in the back row.

Hit Rate = Hit Rate * 1/2



Step 5: Calculate the Attack Multiplier
---------------------------------------

Characters:

Base Attack Multiplier = Str/8 + Agi/16 + 1

Monsters:

Base Attack Multiplier = Assigned Attack Multiplier

Note: Monsters use a specific table to determine their attack power, hit
rate, and attack multiplier.


Step 6: Calculate Target's Defense
----------------------------------

Vitality is aka Stamina in FF4A.

Characters:

Base Defense = sum of all defense values for all armor equipped + Vit/2
All unequipped sections (head, body, arms), have a defense value of 0.

Monster:

Base Defense = Listed Defense Value

Notes: If the monster has 255 defense without the help of Protect, the monster
becomes "invincible" and will avoid all physical attacks automatically.

Base Defense is capped at 255.


Step 7: Factor in Defense Modifiers
-----------------------------------

Defense = Base Defense

Target has Protect/Armor applied:

Defense = Base Defense + # of times Protect is applied * 5

If Defense > 255,
Defense = 255

Note: Defense with Protect is capped at 255. 

Target has Curse status:

Defense = Defense * 1/2

Target has Parry/Defend status:

Defense = Defense * 2

Target is in the back row AND one of the following is true...
Attacker is a monster OR
Attacker is a character that is not using a back row compatible weapon

Defense = Defense * 2

Note: Monsters have no back row in FF4A.

Target has Mini/Toad status:

Defense = 0


Step 8: Calculate Evade AKA Defense%
------------------------------------

Characters:

Base Evade = sum of all evasion ratings of armor equipped
All unequipped sections (head, body, arms), have a evade value of 10%.

In the SNES versions, any piece of armor with the Immune bit set
Base Evade = 99

Monsters:

Base Evade = 0

In most cases, this is true. There are only two monsters that manipulate
defense values which will invoke changes in evade.

If the monster's defense without the help of Protect is 255...

Base Evade = 99

Base Evade is capped at 99%.


Step 9: Apply Evade Modifiers
-----------------------------

Evade = Base Evade

Target has Blind/Darkness status:

Evade = Evade * 1/2

Target has Mini/Toad status:

Evade = 0

Aim is used on target:

Evade = 0


Step 10: Compute Defense Multiplier
-----------------------------------

Characters:

Defense Multiplier = Agi/8

If at least one shield is equipped...

Defense Multiplier = Agi/8 + Level/16

Monsters:

Defense Multiplier = 0

Note: Like evade, only those two monsters will change this value.

If the monster's defense without the help of Protect is 255...

Defense Multiplier = 99


Step 11: Modify the Attack Multiplier
-------------------------------------

Here's a simple way of explaining the algo. Consider the attack multiplier
as the number of possible hits. The chance to hit is dictated by the hit rate.
For every successful hit, the target has a chance to evade it. The number
of chances to evade is dictated by the defense multiplier. If the attacker is
unable to land at least one hit, it misses the target. If the target is unable
to evade all the hits, it takes damage. Not complicated right?

Attack Multiplier = Base Attack Multiplier

Algo Steps:

A) If the base attack multiplier is at least 1, goto next step.
   Otherwise, stop.

B) Determine if the hit is successful.
   Decrement the base attack multiplier by 1.
   If (random(0..99) <= Hit Rate) is true, goto next step.
   Otherwise, decrement the attack multiplier by 1, and go back to Step A.

C) If the defense multiplier is at least 1 goto next step.
   Otherwise, stop.

D) Determine if evasion is successful.
   Decrement the defense multiplier by 1.
   If (random(0..99) < Evade) is true,
     decrement the attack multiplier by 1, and go back to Step A.
   Otherwise, go back to step C.

Additionally for the GBA version, if the target has 254 defense,
the attack multiplier is lowered by 1 or 2 (50/50 chance of either value),
with the attack multiplier having a minimum cap of 0. This doesn't apply
if the target is under Mini or Toad status.


Step 12: Plugging All The Numbers In...
---------------------------------------

Damage = Attacker's Attack Power * random(100, 150)/100 - Target's Defense

If Damage < 0, Damage = 0.

If Attack Multiplier > 0 and Damage = 0, Damage = 1.

If the target is undead and the character is using a Drain elemental weapon,

Damage = Damage * -1


Step 13: Inflicting Statuses
----------------------------

The chance of inflicting the status involves the following...

1) Agility (only applicable to the SNES version) - The greater the Agility
that the attacker has over the target, the greater chance to inflict the
status. This is required for Paralysis and Sleep attacks.

2) Hit Rate - Plug that into the physical damage algo.
This is the pure hit rate unmodified by status or the back row (but it does
take advantage of the level hit rate bonus).

3) Evasion - Plug that into the physical damage algo.
This is the pure evasion stat unmodified by statuses and purely modified
by equipment.

Here's a number of possible reasons why statuses won't be applied.

1) The attacker cannot inflict a status while they are under Mini or Toad
status.

2) The target must not die from the attack damage.

3) The target isn't resistant to one or more of the statuses to be inflicted.

4) The target already has the status. In other words, the Piggy's Stick won't
revert a monster to normal when it is already under Piggy status.



2) Magical Damage Algorithm
---------------------------

For most damage magic, they fall into this category. This also includes
commands that induce magic-like effects, include as Pray/Miracle,
Recall/Remember, Heal/Medicine (to a limited extent), and Twin.
Note that this algo is not for HP based attacks.
To properly calculate magic damage, you need to compute the following:


Step 1: Determine the Spell's Base Spell Power
----------------------------------------------

Refer to my Spell Guide. Really, I'm not joking.

Base Spell Power = Whatever is listed for the spell


Step 2: Modify the Base Spell Power
-----------------------------------

Spell Power = Base Spell Power

If the spell is elemental based, its power can be modified if the target
matches that elemental property. It is processed in a particular order
depending of the port of the game. It is processed as follows:
FF4A (GBA)
Absorb > Immunity > Resistance > Weakness
FF2/4/4ET (SNES)
Immunity > Absorb > Resistance > Weakness

When a spell is absorbed, it is factored in at the end of the magic damage
algo with the damage inversion.

When a target is immune to an elemental...

Spell Power = 0

When a target is resistant to an elemental...

Spell Power = Spell Power * 1/2

When a monster is weak vs the elemental and has the Weak+ property...

Spell Power = Spell Power * 4

When a target is weak vs the elemental...

Spell Power = Spell Power * 2

Note: There are few exceptions to this rule as Drain and Osmose do not adhere
to this behavior, even though they are both Drain elemental.

Normally, when you multitarget a spell, the spell power is weakened as such...

Spell Power = Spell Power / # of targets

There is a bug where monsters count the dead in the algorithm, found in one
rare instance. This only applies to the SNES version of the game.

Note: If a spell naturally targets everyone on one side of the field such as
Meteor or Quake, the above modification is not applied at all.


Step 3: Determine the Caster's Spell Multiplier
-----------------------------------------------

Will Power is aka Spirit in FF4A.
Wisdom is aka Intelligence in FF4A.

White:

Base Spell Multiplier = Will/4 + 1

All Other Magic (Black, Ninja, Summon, Twin, Monster):

Base Spell Multiplier = Wis/4 + 1

Monster:

Base Spell Multiplier = Magic/4 + 1

Note: The Monster's spell multiplier works for all kinds of magic they cast.

Item:

Base Spell Multiplier = Item's Internal Value

Note: Most items have an internal spell multiplier, which is usually 8.
Weapon-item cast spells use the spell multiplier built into the weapon.

Spells with the Solo Multiplier:

Base Spell Multiplier = 1

Note: Most of the status inducing spells (non-monster) fall into this category
including a few non-status spells.


Step 4: Compute the Spell's Hit Rate
------------------------------------

You can obtain this info in my Magic Guide. To keep it simple, most attack
spells have a 100% hit rate. This is still worth computing for various
reasons...

Base Spell Hit Rate = Whatever the Spell's Data Says


Step 5: Modify the Spell's Hit Rate
-----------------------------------

Spell Hit Rate = Base Spell Hit Rate

Thanks to Phoenix, we now know that this is altered by three factors.

1) A bonus to hit rate is given to the spell based on stat it is powered by...

Hit Rate = Hit Rate + (Wis or Will or Magic)/2

2) Blind status affects the caster casting non-monster spells:

Hit Rate = Hit Rate * 1/2

3) The caster is in "Slot 1". For the characters, it is the middle slot.
For monsters, it is the frontmost spot. It can change for monsters as they
are killed. Bosses by default are in the frontmost spot.

Hit Rate = Hit Rate * 5/4

Note: Don't bother applying any of these factors if the spell is cast via
the Weapon-Item method or it is an item as it ignores hit rate in the
calculation.


Step 6: Compute the Target's Magic Defense
------------------------------------------

Characters:

Base Magic Defense = sum of all armor
Note: Unequipped sections (armor, helmet, arms) have a magic defense value of
0.

Monsters:

Base Magic Defense = Monster's listed Magic Defense


Step 7: Modify the Target's Magic Defense
-----------------------------------------

Magic Defense = Base Magic Defense

If Shell is in use:

Magic Defense = Base Magic Defense + # of times Shell is applied * 3

If Magic Defense > 255

Magic Defense = 255

Note: Shell caps Magic Defense at 255.

If a character is casting a spell that targets any character (including
himself or herself), magic defense is ignored. This includes all healing
and damaging spells.

Magic Defense = 0


Step 8: Compute the Target's Magic Evade aka Magic Defense%
-----------------------------------------------------------

Characters:

Base Magic Evade = (Wis+Will)/8 + sum of all armor values
Note: All unequipped sections (head, arms, body) have 0 magic evade.

Monsters:

Base Magic Evade = 0


Step 9: Modify the Target's Magic Evade
---------------------------------------

Characters:

If a character casts a spell on another character including himself/herself..

Magic Evade = 0

Monsters:

Magic Evade = Base Magic Evade

If the monster's magic defense is 255 without the help of Shell..

Base Magic Evade = 99

Note: Monsters with 255 magic defense are intentionally meant to be
invincible against magic.


Step 10: Compute the Target's Magic Defense Multiplier
------------------------------------------------------

Characters:

Base Magic Defense Multiplier = (Wis+Will)/32 + Agi/32

Monsters:

Base Magic Defense Multiplier = 0


Step 11: Modify the Magic Defense Multiplier
--------------------------------------------

Magic Defense Multiplier = Base Magic Defense Multiplier

If the target is under Toad status..

Magic Defense Multiplier = 0

If a character casts a spell on another character or himself/herself...

Magic Defense Multiplier = 0

If a monster's magic defense is 255 without the help of Shell...

Magic Defense Multiplier = 99

Note: Monsters with 255 magic defense are intentionally meant to be
invincible to magic.

If a character casts a spell that uses the Solo Multiplier and the
Base Magic Defense Multiplier > 1
Magic Defense Multiplier = 1


Step 12: Modify the Spell Multiplier
-------------------------------------

Here's a simple way of explaining the algo. Consider the spell multiplier
as number of hits to be dealt. The chance to hit is dictated by the spell hit
rate. For every successful hit, you have a chance to evade it.
The number of chances to evade is dictated by the magic defense multiplier.
If the attacker is unable to land at least one hit, the spell "fails".
If the target is unable to evade all the hits, it takes damage.
Not complicated right?

Spell Multiplier = Base Spell Multiplier

Algo Steps:

A) If the base spell multiplier is at least 1, goto next step.
   Otherwise, stop.

B) Determine if the hit is successful.
   Decrement the base spell multiplier by 1.
   If (random(0..99) <= Spell Hit Rate) is true, goto next step.
   Otherwise, decrement the spell multiplier by 1, and go back to Step A.

C) If the magic defense multiplier is at least 1 goto next step.
   Otherwise, stop.

D) Determine if evasion is successful.
   Decrement the magic defense multiplier by 1.
   If (random(0..99) < Evade) is true,
     decrement the spell multiplier by 1, and go back to Step A.
   Otherwise, go back to step C.


Step 13: Plugging All The Numbers In...
---------------------------------------

Damage = Caster's Spell Power * random(100, 150)/100 - Target's Magic Defense

If Damage < 0, Damage = 0.

If Spell Multiplier > 0 and Damage = 0, Damage = 1.

If the target is undead and the character is using Drain or Psych/Osmose,

Damage = Damage * -1

If the spell is a healing spell and the target is not undead,

Damage = Damage * -1

If the target can absorb the spell,

Damage = Damage * -1


Step 14: Special Exceptions
---------------------------

There are a few damage spells that also deal a status effect. However, some
of them have their own peculiar behaviors.

HP Leak:

Bio/Virus and Big Bang automatically work, but Holy has this property as well.
Unfortunately, HP Leak will only be applied if the target is weak against
the elemental (which in this case is Holy).


Stone:

Even though Cockatrice inflicts Stone status, it deals 1 damage for whatever
bizarre reason. It is hard to see this occur in the GBA version unless the
target is immune to Stone status.


Poison:

Venom/Poison is not supposed to work on any non-boss target resistant to
poison. The 1 damage would not normally be dealt.
For most versions of this game though, it will succeed, regardless of
resistance.


Double Meteor (FF4A only):

The spell damage algo is special.

Base Spell Power = 1000

Damage = ((Base Spell Power + random(0,255)) * Elemental Multiplier -
           Target's Magic Defense) * Spell Multiplier


3) HP Based Spells
------------------

There are two different kinds of HP Based Spells. One that deals with
the target's maximum HP. The other deals with the caster's current HP.


Damage Based On The Target's Maximum HP
---------------------------------------

The issue is semi-complex, since there are many different factors that
change the damage output, but here's the basic idea...


Damage = Target's Maximum HP / Spell's Maximum HP Modifier


If the target is resistant or immune to the elemental...

Damage = Target's Maximum HP * 1/10

If the target is weak against the elemental...

Damage = Target's Maximum HP * 1/2

If the target absorbs the elemental, it behaves differently between the
different versions of the game.

SNES:

Use the standard magic algo, where the Spell's Maximum HP Modifier is part
of the base spell power.

Base Spell Power = Spell's Maximum HP Modifier * 4

GBA:

Damage = Caster's Current HP * Spell's Maximum HP Modifier * 1/25

and then...

Damage = Damage + ((Damage * random(100,150)/100) % 256)
                - Target's Magic Defense

If Damage <= 0, Damage = 1

Damage = Damage * -1


Note: This spell's success is based primarily on Step 12 of the Magic
Algorithm in the SNES version. The spell always succeeds in the GBA version.


Damage Based On The Caster's Current HP
---------------------------------------

Fortunately, this is a relatively simple formula.

Damage = Caster's Current HP / Spell's Current HP Modifier

and then,

Damage = Damage + ((Damage * random(100,150)/100) % 256)


If the target is resistant to the elemental,

Damage = Damage / 2

If the target is immune to the elemental,

Damage = 0 (which eventually results in 1 damage)

If the target absorbs the elemental, it is handled differently between the
GBA and SNES ports.

SNES:

Use the standard magic algo, where the Spell's Current HP Modifier is part
of the base spell power.

Base Spell Power = Spell's Current HP Modifier * 4

GBA:

Damage = Damage * -1


Note: This spell's success is based primarily on Step 12 of the Magic
Algorithm in the SNES version. The spell always succeeds in the GBA version.



4) The Rest Of The Spells And Status Resistance
-----------------------------------------------

Every non-monster, non-damaging spell should be applied to the magic damage
formula, with the only important aspect that you just need the spell to
succeed, ignoring the need to do damage. Most spells that fall into this
category are status inducing, and tend to have the "solo multiplier" bit
enabled which implies that the base spell multiplier is always 1. If the
final spell multiplier is 1, the status inflicting would succeed.


Every monster, non-damaging spell seems to work 100% of the time, even if the
monster is blind, although status resistance will prevent them from working.
Those spells can still be disabled via piggy and toad status only.


The key to status resistance is simple. If an attack inflicts multiple
statuses, such as the Marlboro's Bad Breath, and the target is resistant to
any of the statuses, the attack fails. This also applies to physical attacks
that inflict multiple status effects.



5) The Boss Bit
---------------

It is difficult to explain this in the context of the algos previously
written to this point, but it is worth its own section to understand it better.

Monsters, primarily bosses, having this bit provides some nice protection.
Status inducing physical attacks automatically fail. Spells with boss bit
also automatically fail, for the most part.

There are a host of spells, the bulk of them being status magic, that have
the boss bit enabled. They won't work on bosses, ever. The Dark Elf in the
Magnetic Cave doesn't have the bit enabled, so it's not an exception to the
rule.

Monster spells are a weird exception to the rule. The monster spells that
deal damage and have the boss bit enabled won't work on themselves. Those
that deal statuses do work, assuming there is no natural resistance to the
status. This is most notable with the Dimension 9 spell of the TrapDoor.
Even if that spell had the boss bit, the TrapDoor itself is not naturally
resistant to Death status, regardless of what the FF4A Bestiary says. The
boss bit provides semi-Death protection via physical attacks and the
Fatal/Death spell has the boss bit. Knowing that the Dimension 9 spell
inflicts Death status, and the trick to kill it via Reflect, it is the best
example to make my point. If the monster had natural Death protection, its
own attack would never work on itself.



6) Commands
-----------

Here's a list of commands and documented behaviors.


Defend/Parry
------------

When the command is executed, the character gets a hidden status that allows
them to double their defense power until their turn comes up.

Defense = Defense * 2


Dark Wave
---------

This command strikes all enemies on the field of play. It is not considered
physical or magical. It ignores defense, magic defense, and row. Hit rate
seems to be 100% and the attack is not elemental based.

Damage = Attack Multiplier * Attack Power * 1/2

Damage = Damage + ((Damage * random(100,150)/100) % 256)

HP Loss = Current HP * 1/8

Note: The HP loss is not applied for the Dark Knight Cecil clone match.


If the target is Undead,

Damage = Damage * 1/4

If the target is a Flan/Pudding monster,

Damage = 0

This command requires a weapon to be equipped.


Jump
----

This command allow for the character to jump into the air and doubles the
attack power of the character when they land on the target. While the
character is in the air, a hidden status is applied. Physical attacks that were
queued to attack this character physically will be redirected to another random
target. If the spell was queued to be used on this character with a single
targeted spell, the spell will automatically fail. Spells that factor in
split damage will not count this character towards the number of targets on
the field. You cannot target allies with this command. The Kain vs Cecil duel
treats Cecil as an enemy target, and is not the exception. Row is ignored
for this command.

Attack Power = Attack Power * 2

The duration of the Jump status is dependant on the character's Agility.

Weapon inflicted statuses can be dealt if the target does not die from the
attack and/or is not resistant to the status.


Double Jump
-----------

This is a FF4A specific ability. Basically, you need to consider it as the sum
of two consecutive jump attacks. Damage is still capped as one attack though.

Weapon inflicted statuses can be dealt if the target does not die from the
attack and/or is not resistant to the status.


Recall/Remember
---------------

The command selects a spell in some sort of list, based on a randomly generated
number. It is possible the spell can fail, because Tellah doesn't have enough
MP, he is under Mute status, or a spell is not selected.

r = random(0, 160)

if 0 <= r < 8, cast Stone/Break
if 8 <= r < 16, cast Bio/Virus
if 16 <= r < 24, cast Weak/Tornado
if 24 <= r < 32, cast Fatal/Death
if 32 <= r < 56, cast Fire
if 56 <= r < 80, cast Ice/Blizzard
if 80 <= r < 104, cast Lit/Thunder
if 104 <= r < 128, cast Toad
if 128 <= r < 160, fail


In the SNES version, spells cast by this command are not considered magical
attacks. This is fixed in the GBA version.

The spells cast use the standard magic formulas to compute magic damage or
status effects. MP is consumed as if the spells were normally cast.


Sing
----

This command produces four effects.

1/4 chance of casting Sleep
1/4 chance of casting Mute
1/4 chance of casting Charm
1/4 chance of doing nothing

If the character is under Frog status,

100% chance of casting Toad

An appropriate message is displayed for each result. The effectiveness of
the spell cast is based on the character's stats when plugged into the
magic algo.

This command requires a two handed weapon equipped.


Chant
-----

This is a FF4A command, built on top of Sing, inheriting the same requirements.

There is a 100% chance that Protect and Shell are selected to be cast, 
however those spells are still factored against the magic algo. It is
conceivable that one or neither spell is cast, particularly when Edward is
under Blind status.

Under testing, it seems that Protect tends to fail under this scenario, leaving
Shell to only be cast. There's no chance that Protect is cast by itself.


Hide
----

This command inflicts Hide status on the character and makes them hidden in
battle. It has targeting behavior similar to Jump status for physical and
magical attacks. Removal of this status is done when the Show command is used.

There is a natural auto-Hide behavior of Edward that is considerably different
between the SNES and GBA ports.

SNES:
If Edward is in critical status (Current HP <= 1/4 Maximum HP), then Edward
will attempt to issue a Hide command unless something else is queued, he is
alone or he is under some uncontrollable status such as Berserk or Stop.
The auto-Hide behavior never occurs in a battle with a monster with the
boss bit.

GBA:
If Edward is in critical status, Edward will attempt to issue a Hide command
when his turn comes up, unless he is alone. Unfortunately, this behavior is
unchecked when Berserk status is inflicted on him, making him inherit
both statuses and their benefits. This behavior is also known as the
"Psycho Edward" bug. The bug ends when the battle ends or all the
other characters are considered dead. The Hide status ends after
the "monster attacks nothing" for a turn.


Heal/Medicine
-------------

This command takes a Potion, and splits it to the entire party. The
healing dealt is always between 12 and 19 to all targets, even if there is
one target. This is because of how this command was designed.

Potion:
Base Spell Power = 8
Spell Multiplier = 8
Fixed Split Multiplier = 5

Healing (worst case) = 8 * 8 / 5 = 12
Healing (best case) = 8 * 8 * 1.5 / 5 = 19

If there are 0 Potions in your inventory, the command will fail and display
a message.


Pray
----

This command casts the Cure spell that is dictated by the command's hit rate.

1/2 chance to cast Cure
1/2 chance to fail

The spell can also fail by itself if Rosa is under Mute status.


Miracle
-------

This is a FF4A only command. This builds upon Pray's behavior.

1/2 chance to cast Cura
1/2 chance to cast Curaga and Esuna

This command automatically fails if Rosa is under Mute status.


Aim
---

This command gives the character that wields a Bow and Arrow "perfect aim".

Target's Evade = 0
Attacker's Hit Rate = 255

This attack is not considered a physical attack in the SNES version. This
behavior is fixed in FF4A.

Weapon inflicted statuses can be dealt if the target does not die from the
attack and/or is not resistant to the status.


Build Up/Power
--------------

This command doubles the attack power of the character that uses it. The
character is put under a "Charging" status where the character proceeds to
not be able to avoid magic. The duration of this status is dependant on
the Agility of the character.

Attack Power = Attack Power * 2

Magic Defense Multiplier = 0

This command does factor in the current row of the character.

Weapon inflicted statuses can be dealt if the target does not die from the
attack and/or is not resistant to the status.


Deadly
------

This command is a FF4A specific command.

This command triples the attack power of the character that uses it. The
character is put under a "Charging" status where the character proceeds to
not be able to avoid magic. The duration of this status is dependant on
the Agility of the character.

Attack Power = Attack Power * 3

Magic Defense Multiplier = 0

This command does factor in the current row of the character.

Weapon inflicted statuses can be dealt if the target does not die from the
attack and/or is not resistant to the status.


Kick
----

This command deals damage to all targets based on the attack power of the
character.

Damage = (Attacker's Attack Power * 1/2 - Target's Defense) * Attack Multiplier

then,

Damage = Damage + ((Damage * random(100,150)/100) % 256)

If the target is a Flan/Pudding,

Damage = 0

If (Attacker's Attack Power * 1/2 <= Target's Defense),
then depending on the version,

SNES:

Damage = 0 (in the form of a Miss!)

GBA:

Damage = 1


Gird/Endure
-----------

This command casts Protect on the character who executes it.
Regardless of the success of failure of the spell cast, a message is shown.
There are some slight behavioral differences between the SNES and GBA versions.

SNES:
The reliability of the Protect being cast is based on the standard magic algo.
This spell can be repelled by Reflect like the original spell.
This command will automatically fail if the character has Mute status.

GBA:
It appears that the command seems to work all the time, but it is possible
it is still failing. There is a second visual effect that can be seen
if the Spirit stat is relatively low. Even though the spell can be reflected,
it doesn't appear to be applied onto the monsters.


Twin
----

This command is connected with the twins. When executed, both twins go into
"Twin" status and consume time based on their Agility. If either twin
are "interrupted", the spell fails to be cast.

r = random number between 0 and 255

0 <= r < 64, cast Comet
64 <= r < 255, cast Flare/Pyro
r = 255, fail

If the spell fails to be cast for whatever reason, a message is displayed.

This behavior changes in FF4A with the Twin Stars equipment. It is unclear
what the exact behavior is.

Both twins consume MP when the spell is successfully cast. Double
Meteor consumes 0 MP.

Golbez and FuSoYa execute this command in their battle with Zeromus, to
cast Double Meteor.

In the FF2 SNES version, the duration of Twin status is much shorter.

When this command is executed in the SNES version, the twin that is in
the highest slot (middle slot is Slot 1) will have their Wisdom stat used.

When this command is executed in the GBA version, the twin that has the
highest Agility will have their Intelligence stat selected. This tends to
favor Porom.


Bluff/Strengthen
----------------

When used, the character's Wisdom/Intelligence stat is boosted by 16 points.
This is stackable and is capped at 99 Wisdom/Intelligence points.


Cry/Fake Tears
--------------

When used by a character, the time required to run away is reduced by 1/2.
I believe it is stackable to an extent. It does not seem to reduce the chances
of dropping money when running away though.


Cover
-----

This command allows Paladin Cecil to cover one character against all physical
attacks, unless Cecil is incapacitated by various statuses or the target is
considered dead. The command inflicts a hidden "Cover" status on the target
selected as a "tag" for Cecil. Executing the "Off" command will remove that
status from the character, if it wasn't removed previously by death or stone
status.

Auto-Cover is used once a character has the hidden "Critical" status
(character's current HP <= 1/4 character's maximum HP).

Executing Defend/Parry will override both methods of Cover.

Cover does not protect against characters attacking themselves or each other.

When taking damage for a covered target, the Cecil's current row is used
in the damage calculations, not the covered target's row.


Peep/Scan
---------

This executes exactly like the Peep/Scan spell, except it doesn't have
any special graphics to it. It won't work on monsters with the boss bit.


Throw/Dart
----------

This command allows you to select a weapon with the throwable property and
it will be thrown at the enemy. You cannot target allies with this command.
Throwing a weapon ignores pretty much many stats and it doesn't matter which
row the command is used in. It is not considered a physical or magical attack.

Damage = Level * Weapon's Attack Power + random(0,98)


Steal/Sneak
-----------

This information is not mine, but it seems solid enough even though it has
yet to be confirmed. A Gamefaqs user named "Terence" wrote this.

If the Target's Level >= Character's Level,

Chance to Steal = 5/100

If the Target's Level < Character's Level,

Chance to Steal = 4 * (Character's Level - Target's Level) / 100

The cap is limited to 95/100.

The item stolen is always the first item or most common item in the monster's
drop list. If a monster does not appear to have a drop list, they actually
do which generally has the Potion at the top of the list. Notably, Zeromus
never drops the Dark Matter item, but it can be stolen.

In the SNES version of the game, if the item is dropped 100% of the time,
the character will automatically not steal the item, w/o displaying a failure
message. In the GBA version, if the item is dropped 100% of the time and
the monster is a boss, the character will automatically fail to steal the item.

The result for stealing will result in displaying a message.

Failing to steal can induce a chance to take damage by the monster. It is
unclear what the formula is and how much damage is dealt. It's royally screwed
up if you ask me.


Plunder
-------

This is an FF4A specific command. If stealing is successful, a regular physical
attack follows as if an Attack command is issued.


Spirit Wave
-----------

When this command is executed, a special timer is started. Healing are always
increments of 10 that occur over a period of time. The number of times you
get healed is very dependent on the Agility of the character that executes
the command. The greater than Agility, the fewer number of times every
character gets healed. There is a different set of behavior between the
SNES and GBA versions.


SNES:
The character is effectively locked up for the duration of the timer. There
is nothing you can do to change this. To keep the timer going indefinitely,
cast Stop on the character that executes the command. Once it wears out, the
healing continues while you have full functionality of the character.


GBA:
Once the character executes said command, they are immediately ready to take
another command.



Commands Disabled Via Status
----------------------------

When afflicted by certain statuses, certain commands are disabled. Don't
confuse this by commands that fail to execute because of statuses.

Thanks to Phoenix to finding the entire list. Those commands that aren't
listed do not have any statuses that prevent them from working.


Command                Status
-------                ------

White                  Toad, Piggy, Mute
Black                  Mute
Call/Summon            Toad, Piggy, Mute
Dark Wave              Toad, Mini, Piggy
Jump/Double Jump       Toad, Mini
Recall/Remember        Toad, Piggy, Mute
Sing/Chant             Mute
Aim                    Toad, Mini, Piggy
Power/Deadly/Build Up  Toad, Mini, Piggy, Poison
Kick                   Toad, Mini, Piggy, Float (Float is SNES only)
Gird/Endure            Toad, Mini, Piggy
Twin                   Toad, Mini, Piggy, Mute
Bluff/Strengthen       Toad, Mini, Piggy
Cry/Fake Tears         Toad, Mini, Piggy
Cover                  Toad, Mini
Peep/Study             Toad, Mini, Piggy
Dart/Throw             Toad, Mini
Sneak/Steal/Plunder    Toad
Ninja                  Toad, Piggy, Mute
Regen                  Toad, Mini, Piggy



7) Spells with Special Behavior
-------------------------------

There are a number of spells that have peculiar behavior, which are
documented here.


White/Holy
----------

HP Leak is only inflicted if the target has weak against the elemental.


Cure4/Curaja
------------

When an enemy target takes more than 16383 damage, this spell will heal
the MP of that target instead due to overflow. When the damage is greater
than 9999 but lower than 16383, the healing is the number you see plus 9999.
In the GBA version, this issue is corrected by forcing the healing to max out
at 9999, regardless of the loss of damage.


Life1
-----

In the SNES version, a dead monster target that is hit by this spell is
considered revived and killed. The monster doesn't revive probably because
it has no Vitality/Stamina stat, which implies no HP healing, and thus, "dies
again". This won't work on a target killed by Stone status.


Life2/Full-Life
---------------

In the SNES version, a dead monster target that is hit by this spell is
revived from the dead. This won't work on a target killed by the Stone status.
All other permanent statuses such as Toad or Piggy will continue to stick
with the target like it would for the characters.


Venom/Poison
------------

This spell deals damage (only 1 point though) if Poison status can be inflicted
on the target. Since Poison resistance wasn't fixed until the GBA port in
the Euro or Jap 1.1 version, it will stick onto pretty much any target,
excluding those that have the boss bit.


Quake
-----

Any monster that is weak vs Wind elemental (in the form of arrows, most spears,
and other projectile weapons, excluding the Dwarf Axe) is immune to this
spell and its monster variation.


Sleep
-----

This spell is more effective when the caster has high Agility. It is most
evident via the Slumber Sword where the spell can be cast for free. This
only occurs in the SNES version as the GBA version has this spell cast by
the Slumber Sword successfully all the time.


Stone/Break
-----------

This spell doesn't always kill all monsters that are vulnerable vs Stone
status. Only affects the GBA version.


Psych/Osmose
------------

Although it is Drain elemental, it is not a factor in the magic algorithm.
The spell also factors in the remaining target's MP as the amount of damage
dealt and absorbed.


Drain
-----

Like Psych/Osmose, it is Drain elemental, but it is not a factor in the
magic algorithm. Unlike the aforementioned spell, damage dealt does not
consider the HP left on the target.


Imp/Goblin (Summon)
----------

For some reason, the spell data ignores the spell hit rate of 50%, and assumes
100% instead.


Cockatrice (Summon)
----------

In addition to dealing Stone status, like Poison/Venom, it deals 1 damage to
the target. It is actually possible to kill a target with both Death (by
having 0 HP) and Stone status inflicted at the same time.


Mage/Mind Flayer (Summon)
----------------

This is one of the groups spells that allow reset of a timer. In this case,
it is the Paralysis timer, if that can be inflicted on the target.


Odin (Summon)
----

This spell can kill all the units on the screen as long as all of them
don't have the boss bit and the level check succeeds on all of them.


Sylph (Summon)
-----

This spell in FF2 and FF4ET consumes 0MP, even though it will require 25MP
to allow it to be selected. The damage dealt does not consider whether the
target is Undead or not.


Asura (Summon)
-----

There is a 1/3 chance that one of three faces is picked. Refer to the Spell
Guide for more details.


Bluster/Blaster
---------------

There is a 50% chance of inflicting Death status and a 50% chance of inflicting
Paralysis on a target. In FF4A, it has the unfortunate bug of showing the
graphics effect, regardless of success. Normally, a status attack does not
show an effect if the target is resistant to the status.


Slap
----

There's a 1/3 chance for one of three status is selected for infliction.
This monster spell can induce Paralysis, Silence, or Curse.


Count/Doom
----------

Any target inflicted with this status will have a 10 second countdown towards
their death. This timer can be halted by the Stop status only. Death status
is inflicted (it ignores the Death resistance check) when the countdown reaches
0. Up to 2 monsters can be inflicted with this status by design as this spell
is reflectable. In the SNES, a character has to take a turn before the Death
status is inflicted on a monster.


Blast/Mind Blast
----------------

Even if Paralysis is not inflicted in the SNES version, HP Leak is always
inflicted on the intended target.

Note: All monster spells that inflict HP Leak always work like all monster
status spells, this includes the following:

Big Bang, Vampire, Digest, Pollen


Hug/Embrace
-----------

This is Cure4/Curaja and Stone/Break in one monster spell. Even if the target
has Stone resistance, healing still occurs.


Bad Breath
----------

This spell inflicts Silence, Darkness/Blind, Charm, Toad, Mini, and Piggy
to a target. If that target is resistant to any of the statuses, it is
resistant to the entire attack.


Poison/Poison Gas (Dr. Lugae's spell)
-----------------

This spell is simply Venom/Poison with a base spell power of 8.


Remedy
------

This spell heals the target 1/10 of their maximum HP.


Absorb
------

This spell heals the target 1/3 of their current HP.


Alert
-----

Similar to Call/Summon, this revives a monster to full HP and removes all
negative statuses. However, MP is not restored as part of this process.


Fission
-------

In the SNES version, this spell deals damage to all targets based on
the target's current HP. In the GBA version, this spell operates like a regular
Bomb's Explode attack.


Needle
------

This spell works the same as Counter. The base spell power of this spell is
always the monster's Strength * 2 and plugs into the regular magic algorithm.




8) Statuses
-----------

The status listings are listed in order from greatest priority at the top
of the list to the lowest priority.

Status Description Format:
Permanent: If applicable, the status will linger even after the battle is over.
Reversible: If applicable, this status can be removed.
Ignores Priority: If applicable, this status can be set regardless of other
preexisting statuses other than Death or Stone status. Also, certain statuses
can be set outside of battle.
Visual Cue: This is a description of how the status can be seen visually
whether inside or outside of battle.
Hidden: If applicable, the status will not be hinted at when you go to cast
a friendly healing spell on the characters.
Timer: If applicable, the status sets a timer. It can be influenced by a
number of factors such as a character's/monster's stat or Haste and Slow.
When the timer expires, some statuses will cause a particular reaction.
Some status timers can be reset.
Description: Here is where the status is explained in detail.


Death/Swoon

Permanent: Yes
Reversible: Yes
Ignores Priority: No (this is the highest)
Visual Cue: In battle, the character uses the collapsed pose.
Outside of battle, the status is spelled out.
Monsters disappear from battle when afflicted by this status.
Hidden: No
Timer: No
Description: When this status is set, HP = 0.


Stone

Permanent: Yes
Reversible: Yes
Ignores Priority: No
Visual Cue: In battle, the character crouches down as a statue.
Outside of battle, it is represented by a rock.
Monsters disappear from battle when afflicted by this status.
Hidden: No
Timer: No
Description: This is another form of death, without having HP set to 0.

Note: Both Death and Stone status share the following properties.
Physical attacks on a target set with either status are retargeted.
Single targeted magic (other than a life spell or item) will not target
and will automatically fail.
Having either status will count towards the "party death check".
This status will remove all other statuses excluding
Toad, Mini, Piggy, Blind, Mute, and Float.


Toad/Frog

Permanent: Yes
Reversible: Yes
Ignores Priority: No
Visual Cue: In battle, characters look like a really tiny toad.
Monsters use a special toad sprite.
Outside of battle, the overworld character sprite changes into a toad.
The menu character sprite also changes to a toad.
A status icon for Toad appears in the menu.
Hidden: No
Timer: No
Description: This status prevents all magic other than Toad from working.
A great number of commands are disabled as well.
Characters and monsters afflicted with this status will have 1 attack power,
0 defense, 0 evasion, and a 0 magic defense multiplier. It will also double
the attack power of an attacker to a target that has this status.


Mini/Dwarf

Permanent: Yes
Reversible: Yes
Ignores Priority: No
Visual Cue: In battle, characters look like a midget.
Monsters use a special midget sprite.
Outside of battle, the overworld character sprite changes into a midget.
A status icon for Mini appears in the menu.
Hidden: No
Timer: No
Description: This status disables a number of commands. In the SNES version, it
disables one monster magic (which the cell monsters use). In the GBA version,
it disables all monster magic.
Characters and monsters afflicted with this status will have 1 attack power,
0 defense, and 0 evasion. It will also double the attack power of an attacker
to a target that has this status.


Piggy

Permanent: Yes
Reversible: Yes
Ignores Priority: No
Visual Cue: In battle, characters look like a pig.
Monsters use a special pig sprite.
Outside of battle, the overworld character sprite changes into a pig.
A status icon for Piggy appears in the menu.
Hidden: No
Timer: No
Description: This status prevents all magic other than Piggy from working.

Note: Toad, Mini, and Piggy statuses can be inflicted outside of battle,
ignoring status priorities. Esuna/Heal can also be cast by those inflicted
with any of those status. In the GBA port, status priorities between the
three statuses are not enforced. This is how Zeromus EG is able to inflict
Mini status right after Toad is cast in its dualcast status attack, assuming
there is no status resistance for both.


Mute/Silence

Permanent: Yes
Reversible: Yes
Ignores Priority: 
Visual Cue: In battle, a crouching character has an orange message bubble
appears over their head.
Outside of battle, the status is represented by a small orange message bubble.
Hidden: No
Timer: No
Description: This status prevents all non-monster spells to be cast.
A number of spell based commands are also disabled by this status.


Blind/Darkness

Permanent: Yes
Reversible: Yes
Ignores Priority: No
Visual Cue: In battle, a crouching character has a pair of black glasses
hover over the character's eyes. Outside of battle, the status is represented
by a pair of dark glasses over the face.
Hidden: No
Timer: No
Description: This status reduces a character's or monster's hit rate, evade,
and spell hit rate by half. Monster spells are unaffected by this status.


Poison

Permanent: Yes
Reversible: Yes
Ignores Priority: Yes
Visual Cue: In battle, a crouching character has a purple face.
Outside of battle, you will see the screen blur while the character moves in
the overworld.
The status is represented with a bottle of poison.
Hidden: No
Timer: Yes. A high Vitality/Stamina stat for characters or a high maximum HP
for monsters slows down this timer. When the timer has elapsed, the target
loses 1/8 of its max HP, with a minimum damage of 1. The timer can be reset
by Venom/Poison.
Description: This status attempts to kill a target over time.
Outside of battle, the character will lose 1 HP on every step, but cannot
die under this method (HP stays at 1).

Note: Casting Exit while a character is under this status will cause them to
lose 42HP.


Curse

Permanent: No
Reversible: Yes
Ignores Priority: No
Visual Cue: A crouching character has a floating "skull" hovering over them.
Hidden: No
Timer: No
Description: When set, a character or monster afflicted by this status has
its attack power and defense lowered by 1/2.


Float

Permanent: Yes (only in the same area in a town or dungeon)
Reversible: Yes
Ignores Priority: Yes
Visual Cue: In battle, a character is floating in mid-air.
Outside of battle, a feather represents the status.
Hidden: No
Timer: No
Description: This spell allows for a character to avoid damage tile damage
and give immunity to Quake. In the SNES port, this status can mask "Critical"
status. This status is removed after a battle on the overworld or after a
transition in an area (door, stairs, leaving the area).
This status can be inflicted outside of battle.

Note: A character on a damage tile w/o Float status after casting Exit will
lose up to 2100HP. This is only applicable in the SNES port.


Paralyze

Permanent: No
Reversible: Yes
Ignores Priority: No
Visual Cue: A character crouches to some binding rings.
Hidden: No
Timer: Yes. A high Will Power/Spirit stat for characters or a high Magic stat
for monsters reduces the duration of this status. The target is released from
this status when the timer has elapsed. This status's timer can be reset only
from the Mage/Mind Flayer summon.
Description: Don't confuse this status with Metallic Paralysis.


Sleep

Permanent: No
Reversible: Yes
Ignores Priority: No
Visual Cue: A character crouches with a blue sleep bubble coming from their
mouth.
Hidden: No
Timer: Yes. A high Will Power/Spirit stat for characters or a high Magic stat
for monsters reduces the duration of this status. The target is released from
this status when the timer has elapsed. This status timer cannot be reset.
Description: See the following note...


Note: Paralysis and Sleep share the same properties.
When the status is set, the character's ATB bar is stopped and is reset.
Any command that was inputted prior to the status is not executed.
In the SNES versions, both statuses cannot be inflicted at the same time.
In the GBA port, Paralysis overrides Sleep status and its timer.


Charm/Confuse

Permanent: No
Reversible: No
Ignores Priority: No
Visual Cue: A character has a yellow circle hovering over their head and they
move to the other side.
Hidden: No
Timer: No
Description: A character or monster under this status go into an uncontrollable
state. A character will either attack a character physically or cast a spell.
If a spell is cast, spells that would normally be casted on an ally would
target the enemy and vice versa. Single or multitargeting depends on the
default targeting of the spell. Spells are cast instantly under this status.
Spells that are cast are limited only to Black and White magic that are
available to the character at the time.
Monsters under this status will run their Charm script. This script does not
automatically mean that monsters will attack themselves (see the Tinymage and
Green Dragon).
The ATB of the target that was afflicted with this status will reset and follow
the regular ATB rules. If a command was issued prior to removal of this status,
the command will continue to be executed. This status can be removed by
physical attacks. Removal of this status does not reset the ATB bar for
the target.


Berserk

Permanent: No
Reversible: Yes
Ignores Priority: No
Visual Cue: The character is uncontrollable and won't take commands.
Hidden: No
Timer: No
Description: A character or monster under this status will always issue an
attack command when the ATB bar is filled.
The ATB bar is reset when the status is inflicted on the target.
The attack power of the target increased by 1/2.

Note: The Avenger Sword is a special case weapon that keeps the holder Berserk
throughout the battle regardless. In the GBA version, only the Black Hole
spell and the special Zeromus spell (that is combined with Zeromus shaking)
can remove this special Berserk to prevent Cecil being locked in to this
weapon. This weapon has a fair share of bugs accompanying it in the SNES
version.


"Gradual Petrification" is dealt differently in the GBA port than it is in
the SNES version. The statuses will be described separately.


Petrify (2/3 Stone) - SNES version

Permanent: No
Reversible: Yes
Ignores Priority: Yes
Visual Cue: Most of the character is in a stone-color.
Hidden: No
Timer: Yes. A high Vitality/Stamina stat for characters or a high max HP
for monsters slows down the timer's progression. Once the timer has elapsed,
Stone status is set.
Description: This status is a progression marker for "Gradual Petrification".
It is a transitional status from Stiff (1/3 Stone).
It is normally inflicted by the Medusa Sword/Gorgon Blade.
Another "Gradual Petrification" attack automatically moves this status to
the next stage.


Stiff (1/3 Stone) - SNES version

Permanent: No
Reversible: Yes
Ignores Priority: Yes
Visual Cue: Part (1/3) of the character is in a stone-color.
Hidden: No
Timer: Yes. A high Vitality/Stamina stat for characters or a high max HP
for monsters slows down the timer's progression. Once the timer has elapsed,
Petrify (2/3 Stone) status is set.
Description: This status is the beginning of "Gradual Petrification".
The final state of this progressive status is being inflicted with Stone.
Another "Gradual Petrification" attack automatically moves this status to
the next stage.


Slowing Petrify (2/3 Stone) - GBA version

Permanent: No
Reversible: Yes
Ignores Priority: Yes
Visual Cue: It looks like Paralyze, but it has gray rings.
Hidden: Yes
Timer: Yes. A high Vitality/Stamina stat for characters or a high max HP
for monsters slows down the timer's progression. Once the timer has elapsed,
Stone status is set.
Description: This status is a progression marker for "Gradual Petrification".
The next Slowing Petrify attack automatically sets the target to Stone.


Slowing Petrify (1/3 Stone) - GBA version

Permanent: No
Reversible: Yes
Ignores Priority: Yes
Visual Cue: It looks like Paralyze, but it has gray rings.
Hidden: Yes
Timer: No
Description: This status is the beginning of "Gradual Petrification".
It takes 3 Slowing Petrify attacks to progress to the next stage of this status
(2/3 Stone). Monsters under Charm cannot be inflicted with this status.


Note: If you have resistance to Stone, you will have resistance against
"Gradual Petrification". The opposite is also true.


Metallic Paralysis

Permanent: No
Reversible: Yes (duh, don't equip metallic equipment, otherwise you're stuck)
Ignores Priority: Yes
Visual Cue: It looks very much like Paralyze.
Hidden: Yes
Timer: No
Description: If any sort of metallic equipment in the Dark Elf's Cave is
equipped prior to Edward playing his harp, this status is inflicted in battle.
This status can be inflicted by equipping a metallic weapon or shield and
executing a command.
This status is part of the "party death check", but it doesn't prevent monsters
from retargeting or preventing auto-Cover from working.


Stop

Permanent: No
Reversible: No (except while under Count/Doom status with Dispel)
Ignores Priority: Yes
Visual Cue: The character is unable to take input while under this status.
Also, they hold the last pose they were in prior to the status.
Hidden: No
Timer: Yes. Once the timer elapses, the status is removed. The time can be
reset or manipulated with Stop or other Hourglass items.
Description: When set, the target's ATB is stopped. It is reset as soon
as the status is removed. Every known timer is stopped by this status.

Note: This status is relatively buggy in the SNES version in conjunction with
other status timers.


Egg

Permanent: No
Reversible: Yes (when physical or magical damage is dealt)
Ignores Priority: Yes
Visual Cue: The monster is inside an egg.
Hidden: Unknown (this is an enemy specific status)
Timer: No
Description: Certain monster formations have this status enabled, which is
part of the formation data. This status is primarily cosmetic.
While under this status, the monster will follow an Egg status script, which
generally is doing nothing.
These monsters also run an Egg and HP damage check in its counter script to
cast the "Hatch" spell.
Monsters that have a magic check counter script will run those if applicable.


Defend/Parry

Permanent: No
Reversible: Yes (it ends when the character's input window displays)
Ignores Priority: Yes
Visual Cue: The character uses their regular attack stance.
Hidden: Yes
Timer: No
Description: When you select the Defend command, this status is applied.
The character's defense is doubled until their next command input.


Charging

Permanent: No
Reversible: Yes (when the command is completed)
Ignores Priority: Yes
Visual Cue: The character uses their special command motion.
Hidden: Yes
Timer: Yes. Having high Agility reduces the duration of this timer. Once
the timer is elapsed, the command is executed.
Description: When you choose the command Build Up/Power/Deadly, this status
is applied.
While under this status, the character's magic defense multiplier is 0.


Twin

Permanent: No
Reversible: Yes
Ignores Priority: Yes
Visual Cue: The characters involved with the spell are casting simultaneously.
Hidden: Yes
Timer: Having high Agility reduces the duration of this timer. The timer will
end on being "interrupted" or when the spell is executed.
Description: This status is set when the Twin command is executed.
This status can end regardless of the success or failure of the spell casting.


Jump

Permanent: No
Reversible: Yes (when the command is completed)
Ignores Priority: Yes
Visual Cue: The character jumps into the air and eventually lands on the
target.
Hidden: Yes
Timer: Yes. Having high Agility reduces the duration of this timer.
Description: This status is set when the Jump command is selected.
Once the character lands on the target, the status ends.
All physical attacks on this target are redirected.
All single targeted magic on this target automatically misses.
All multitargeted magic attacks do not factor in this target.
Poison, Gradual Petrification, and Count/Doom timers continue to run
and will apply their negative effects when the target lands. However, if
the final monster dies once the character lands, those status timers won't
execute the final result. The HP Leak timer continues to run, but damage
is not dealt. The remaining time left will still apply damage once the
character lands.


Count/Doom

Permanent: No
Reversible: No
Ignores Priority: Yes
Visual Cue: The character has numbers hovering over their head.
Hidden: No
Timer: Yes. Once the timer elapses, Death status is inflicted. The timer
can be reset.
Description: When set, a countdown timer is initiated for the target's death.
Death status is inflicted, regardless of Death resistance.


Hide

Permanent: No
Reversible: Yes (use Show command)
Ignores Priority: Yes
Visual Cue: The character "leaves" the battle.
Hidden: Yes
Timer: No
Description: This status is set when the Hide command is used.
The status is removed once the character uses the Show command.
All physical attacks on this target are redirected.
All single targeted magic on this target automatically misses.
All multitargeted magic attacks do not factor in this target.
Poison, Gradual Petrification, and Count/Doom timers continue to run
and will apply their negative effects when the target shows. The HP Leak timer
continues to run and all HP Leak damage can be avoided through this status
unless the character shows themselves prior to the timer elapsing.


HP Leak

Permanent: No
Reversible: Yes
Ignores Priority: Yes
Visual Cue: HP drops without outside influences.
Hidden: Yes
Timer: Yes. A timer is started to leak 2 HP for approximately 30 ticks.
Once the timer elapses, the status is removed. This timer can be reset.
Description: When set, a timer runs for the target to lose at most 60HP from
a target (assuming Haste or Slow are not involved).
The interesting case is that Holy/White inflicts this status if and only
if the target is weak against the elemental.


Reflect/Wall

Permanent: No
Reversible: Yes
Ignores Priority: Yes
Visual Cue: Reflectable magic bounces off a "wall".
Hidden: No
Timer: Yes. A timer is started to keep the "wall" up. Once the timer elapses,
the status ends. This timer can be reset or altered by the spells with the
same name or the Curtain items.
Description: When set, this status retargets all reflectable spells to the
opposing side. Notably, monster magic counter scripts don't work properly
vs reflected spells in the SNES version.

Note: Dispel is reflectable and has the boss bit, which makes it very useless
vs this status.


Barrier

Permanent: No
Reversible: Yes
Ignores Priority: Yes
Visual Cue: All physical attacks always miss.
Hidden: No
Timer: No
Description: This status is set via the Lunar Curtain item. This status
cannot be removed unless Dispel or Black Hole is used.


Image (2)

Permanent: No
Reversible: Yes
Ignores Priority: Yes
Visual Cue: Two transparent images are displayed next to the character.
Hidden: No
Timer: No
Description: When set, the target will be able to take 2 physical attacks
before losing the Image status altogether. A physical hit will change this
status to Image (1).


Image (1)

Permanent: No
Reversible: Yes
Ignores Priority: Yes
Visual Cue: One 
Hidden: No
Timer: No
Description: The target will be able to take only 1 physical attack before
losing Image status. This can be set by FF4A's Mist Dragon with the Mist Ring.
A physical hit will remove this status.


Covered

Permanent: No
Reversible: Yes (The Off command removes this status.)
Ignores Priority: Yes
Visual Cue: Paladin Cecil covers a target with this status.
Hidden: Yes
Timer: No
Description: When the Cover command targets a character, this status is
applied. This status is removed when the "Off" command is used.
This will force Paladin Cecil to take all physical attacks against the
character with this status unless Cecil cannot be controlled or is under
Critical status.


Critical

Permanent: No
Reversible: Yes (increase the current HP to over 1/4 the character's Max HP)
Ignores Priority: Yes
Visual Cue: The character crouches with some waves hovering over them.
Hidden: Yes
Timer: No
Description: This status is automatically set when a character's HP is
lower than 1/4 their maximum HP. It is automatically removed when their
current HP is above 1/4 their maximum HP.


Timers
------

Certain statuses have a timer, and they can be manipulated with Stop, Haste,
and Slow.

Here's a quick list of timers:
Poison
Paralysis
Sleep
Gradual Petrification
Stop
Charging
Jumping
Count/Doom
HP Leak
Reflect/Wall
Regen (via FuSoYa's special command)


Stop affects most timers, and this tends to expose bugs in the SNES version
that may cause odd behavior.

Here's a quick list of timers that are affected and how if applicable:
Poison - The timer stops.
Paralysis - This will cause the game to freeze for monsters
or characters will stay paralyzed indefinitely in the SNES version.
Sleep - This will cause the game to freeze for monsters
or characters will stay sleeping indefinitely in the SNES version.
Gradual Petrification - This will cause the game to freeze for monsters
or characters will stay partially petrified in the SNES version.
Stop - The timer resets.
Charging - This ends the timer.
Count/Doom - The timer stops.
HP Leak - In the SNES version, the timer stops for monsters and characters.
However, the characters keep having their HP leaked indefinitely until
death or when the battle ends. The GBA version doesn't prevent the HP leak
timer to stop.
Reflect/Wall - The timer stops.
Regen - The timer doesn't end in the SNES version, which allows the effect
to last indefinitely.

Haste and Slow affect the length of the timers. Haste accelerates those timers
and Slow decelerates those timers.

Here's a quick list of timers that are affected and how if applicable
(note that Slow will do the opposite):
Poison - Haste shortens the time to dealing Poison damage.
Paralysis - Haste shortens the time under this status.
Sleep - Haste shortens the time under this status.
Gradual Petrification - Haste shortens the time to inflicting Stone status.
Stop - Haste shortens the time under this status.
Charging - Haste shortens the time to execute the command.
Jumping - Haste shortens the time to execute the command.
HP Leak - Haste shortens the time under this status, to dealing 44 damage at
best when maxing out. Slow lengthens the time under this status, to dealing
120 damage at worst when maxing out.
Reflect/Wall - Haste shortens the time under this status.
Regen - Haste reduces the frequency of healing.


Note: Contrary to popular belief, when the Plague monster casts Haste on you,
it is doing you a favor. The only reason why it fails so often is because you
are the enemy and having a high magic evasion stat and multiplier prevents
you from benefiting. Haste and Slow have no impact on the Count/Doom
status timer.



9) Tips and Notes
-----------------

The most important tip that you will ever read is healing outside of battle.
Potions are always the most effective outside of battle. Cure is also the
most effective spell outside of battle. The formula for any Cure spell
outside of battle is...

(Will Power/8 + 2) * (Will Power/2 + Base Spell Power)

Cure3/Curaga and Cure4/Curaja is not as powerful, even though Cure4 heals
a character to the max, regular Cure can heal up to 911HP for 3MP, which only
requires 12 castings to heal 9999HP. This is 4 less MP than Cure4. So if
you wanting to conserve Rosa's MP and trying to use it wisely, you will benefit
most from casting Cure outside of battle and equipping anything that increases
her Will Power. Just imagine what 3MP can do for you. Note that this only
applies outside of battle, as you want to use the strongest Cure spell in 
battle.

As an extension of this thought, Cure3/Curaga is the best spell to use in
battle (unless you're desperate for Cure4/Curaja). Cure3 heals 9x more than
Cure for only 6x the MP. That's a bargain for HP healed. Cure4 (when split)
heals only 2x more than Cure3, but costs a little more than 2x the MP of Cure3.
This is the best spell Tellah can use because of his inherent stat limitations.
I honestly don't want to hear people whining about healing taking so much MP
when simple observation can show that the better spell is not always the one
that is learned last.


Formation is somewhat underrated, but it is an important aspect to optimizing
your group. Each position on the formation is tied a particular slot...
Slot #, Position
1, Middle
2, Topmost
3, Bottommost
4, Top-Middle
5, Bottom-Middle

The middle position benefits magicwise, allowing you to get instant kills
quickly with Odin or Stone/Break. When you strike first, this is the order in
which you input character commands. This is also used if two characters had
the same Agility... the order happens to be the tiebreaker. Also, this is
important for the SNES version's Twin ability where the twin's position
dictates the character's Wisdom used for the casted twin spell.


A number of weapons can be used to cast "weapon-item" magic. For example, the
Rod can cast a nice attack spell for killing enemies early in the game. To
take advantage of this, you need to equip the weapon that has a spell attached
to it. Select the Item command for the character that has the weapon equipped
and keep holding the Up button so that the equipped weapon is shown. Then, you
select the weapon twice and you now have the opportunity to select a target
as if it were a spell. Note that not all weapons have a spell, but the majority
of Rods and Staffs have some useful spell to be used. One important fact to
point out is that the spells generally work 100% of the time (the Slumber
Sword is the exception) and they can make the game much easier. For instance,
the Change Rod's Piggy spell makes the StingRat's/Hell Needle's Needle attack
harmless!


FF4 Easytype is not FF2 in Japanese and far from it! There is also NO Hardtype
version. It just happens that FF4 is the hardest of SNES versions of the game.
FF4ET does resemble a lot like FF2 in terms of difficulty, except that monsters
on the moon are radically different than you remember them. Also, there are
a decent number of equipment changes that actually impact the game. The Piggy's
Stick was first created in the FF series of games (I think so anyways. Clearly,
it did not originate from FF4A.


Slow is your friend. Regardless of how fast the enemy is, you can reduce the
enemy's impact by casting Slow to make regular battles and bosses significantly
easier. To maximize Slow's impact, you only need to cast it twice. Most
bosses don't cast Haste/Fast, so you don't need to cast it more than 2 times.


Piggy is an underrated status, even though it provides a two fold benefit.
For the monsters, inflicting Piggy status on them ensures that any spell,
particularly monster spells can't be used. On the other side, Piggy allows
for a mini-benefit for fighters to be able to have a mini-Ribbon while under
Piggy status. Since status priorities prevent most other statuses from being
applied, you get protection from most statuses except Float (if that even
matters), Poison, and Partial Petrification.


When you fight a battle, the chances of striking first increases when the
party's average level increases. On the other hand, the chances of the enemy
striking first decreases when the party's average level increases.


When running away, there's a chance to drop money. The money dropped is always
1/4 the amount you would normally get if all the initial enemies on the screen
died. Summoned monsters and monsters that have died or run away do not change
the amount of money dropped. Cry does not actually reduce the chances of
dropping the money. It only reduces the length of time to run away. To ensure
no money is lost, use escaping spells instead.


Stats maximums are always capped at 99, but there's a slight difference
to how they are dealt with between the ports for their minimum cap. In the
SNES version, stats below 0 become 1. In the GBA version, stats below 0
become 0. However in both versions, Agility's minimum cap is always 1.


In the SNES version, Bow and Arrow stat bonuses are only applied when both are
equipped. In the GBA version, these bonuses are applied when either the
bow or arrow is equipped. Even though arrows are not set to have stat bonuses,
they would apply if they were set in the equipment data.


When you attack with the Bow+Arrow or a Harp, the number of projectiles
(both audio and visual cures) directly correlates with the effective attack
multiplier or hits dealt to the enemy.


Certain effects such as the attack graphics of a Whip is not displayed when
the target is one of the characters in the SNES version. These graphics are
shown in the GBA version.


Don't equip the Avenger Sword on Cecil for the Zeromus battle in the SNES
version. It is impossible to remove Berserk status in that version of the game.
In the GBA version, Black Hole and the hidden spell Zeromus casts when he
shakes removes the virtual perma-Berserk status that the Avenger applies on
the character.


There are no front and back rows for enemies in FF4A. This is contrary to
some stupid rumors (hint: Wikipedia) that were floated about FF4ET.


FF4A's RNG (Random Number Generator) sucks. It is very difficult to find
normally more common formations in this game.


FF4A made a significant, yet subtle change in how multitargeted status
afflicting attacks work. The SNES versions required that if the status
affliction failed, all targets would not be affected. In the GBA version,
the success or failure of the status attack is determined on each target.


One of the more annoying behaviors in FF4A is that the graphic effect normally
used for Paralysis is always shown even if the target is resistant to that
status.


When characters leave your party and eventually come back, all the experience
gained while they are gone continue to be added to those characters. Just
assume they are passively in the party, collecting the experience. Having
less or dead party members will help increase the experience gained to those
inactive characters. Levels are not "readjusted", they ALWAYS correspond to
the experience gained. In other words, Rydia will still be the lowest level
because the experience required for her to gain a level is much greater than
Kain for instance... which implies Kain will gain many more levels while he's
gone.


There's only a small number of new battle graphics in FF4A. However, you
will only find it for the monsters at Yang's trial.


The Metamorpha monster was introduced in FF5, but now included in FF4A. It
has the ability to change into another monster for the duration of the battle.
The monsters it can change to are the following: Behemoth, Blue Dragon,
White Dragon, and Ahriman.


In the SNES versions, storing stuff in the Big Chocobo automatically gets
sorted. There is no sorting done in the GBA version.



10) Bugs!
---------

This will probably end up being a work in progress as the number of bugs
found will amaze you. At the very least, you will find that you have been
affected by one or more bugs during your playthrough of the game. Make sure
to blame Square for all the SNES bugs and TOSE for all the GBA port bugs.


Yang's HP Growth Bug:
(affects all SNES versions, FF4A US, and Jap 1.0 versions)

It must be some crazy oversight, but Yang's HP Growth stops at level 60. The
data for HP growth past level 60 is essentially "missing" and he will never
reach 9999HP, unlike Cid.

This bug is fixed in the GBA Euro and Jap 1.1 versions of the game.


Moving after events allows for strange possibilities:
(affects both SNES and GBA versions)

After an event or event trigger has occurred, you are able to move the sprite
into something it shouldn't normally. For instance, the Dwarven doorman that
opens the passage into the lower areas of the castle can be walked through
after he opens the door (only doable in FF4A). You can move the airship one
step when the Enterprise first goes up or when Kain shows you the way to the
Tower of Zot. One really annoying behavior involves the Super Cannon event.
You have a brief moment to go back into the door to the Super Cannon after
Yang punches you out. In the SNES version, you are stuck in the room...
although in the GBA version, you repeat the Yang punching you out sequence.


Treasure in the strangest places:
(affects all SNES versions)

Some teleporting tiles for some reason are also considered hidden item pickup
areas. This looks like a small oversight and some of them are removed in
FF4ET, but the majority of those remain.


Monsters count the dead when healing with a Cure spell:
(affects all SNES versions)

This behavior is notable in one instance. Sandy (the tallest Magus Sister) has
a battle script that attempts to cast Cure2 on herself and Mindy (the
smallest sister) when Cindy (the middle sister) is dead. The problem is that
The problem is that the healing factors in the dead sister(s) in the
calculations, which reduces the overall healing done.

This bug is fixed in FF4A.


Avenger bugs...

Weapon properties and stats don't change when equipping the Avenger in combat:
(affects all SNES versions)

Equipping the Avenger Sword while in combat doesn't change the previous
weapon's stats to the Avenger. The result is effectively like casting
Berserk on the character. The previous weapon's attack power and elemental
are preserved. This bug is only useful to avoid the Crystal Armor's Berserk
protection.


Kain "Casts Magic" while equipped with the Avenger Sword in Zeromus battle:
(affects FF2US [both 1.0 and 1.1] and FF4)

When Kain equips the Avenger Sword, there is some strange interact with
the Avenger Sword's reapplying Berserk and the hidden "Black Hole" spell
that comes with Zeromus shaking. It requires special timing to pull off.
If someone precedes Kain by casting a spell (or using an item) AND Zeromus
does not shake before Kain's turn, Kain may attempt to cast a "dummy" spell
(although, in the case of the item, Kain repeats using the same item). It
seems that the Avenger makes Kain repeat the last thing that was executed.

This is fixed in FF4ET.


Character wielding Avenger Sword doesn't initially automatically attack:
(affects all SNES versions)

When equipped with the Avenger, the character will not start attacking until
its "logical" turn has occurred. I have no idea why this is the case. To
workaround this bug, you can place the character in the middle slot so the
character will act normal.


This is fixed in FF4A.


Equipment bugs...

Weapon bits do not have any effect:
(affects FF4A US and Jap 1.0 versions)

I'm not sure how this went through testing, but a number of weapons clearly
don't have their weapon bits work properly. Here's a quick list:

Asura's Rod (no Holy elemental)
Tiger Fangs (no paralysis)
Dragon Claw (no Holy elemental, no dragon multiplier)
Loki's Lute (no multipliers applied)
Mist Whip (no Holy elemental, no paralysis)
Assassin Dagger (no death)
Piggy's Stick (no piggy)
Rising Sun (not a Wind elemental)
Requirem Harp (no drain effect)
Gigant Axe (no poison)
Perseus Bow (not a Wind elemental)

The bug here is that all weapons beyond item #261 (0x105, Fiery Hammer) or
effectively weapons starting from item #288 (0x120, Nirvana) are considered
"armor". Weapons with elemental attack properties are considered elemental
resistances. Weapons with elemental status attacks are considered status
resistances. Weapons with racial multipliers are considered racial resistances.
Let's be honest, someone clearly goofed.

This bug was fixed in the Euro and Jap 1.1 versions.


The Immunity bit:
(affects all SNES versions)

This seems to be an unfinished feature of the game. This bit was supposed
to allow elemental immunity when combined with other equipment like the Cursed
Ring. Equipping the Glass Mask would accomplish that.
This was also intended to be used with the Ice/Flame set of armor.
Unfortunately, the Glass Mask does nothing, and there's an additional
negative side effect. If a character were to equip the Adamant Armor and then
remove it, the character would instantly have an extreme weakness (Weak+) to
Fire and Ice, and a normal weakness to Lightning. There are special "Immune"
bits that are set for having extra elemental protection, however when the
Immune bit is removed, these bits are treated as weakness bits. Also, given
how Fire and Ice resistances induce opposite elemental weaknesses,
this behavior become very detrimental.


This behavior has changed in FF4A. The immune bits are properly removed,
however the Immune bit does not combine with other equipment. This limits it
only to the Adamant Armor to benefit from it. Additionally, the Glass Mask
has this property removed altogether.


Back Row Bit bugs....

Certain bits aren't removed when the weapon is removed/changed:
(affects all SNES versions)

Believe it or not, the weapon data has a number of extra (and still yet
to be determined bits) that the game uses. The problem is that the majority
of these extra bits (excluding the Metallic bit) are not removed. One of
these bits happen to be the back row bit (which is beneficial to you). This
bit allows you to attack from the back row and attack an "enemy's back row"
w/o being penalized. The enemy's back row is determined by the formation...
The other bit that is of importance is the "no critical bit" (which is not
beneficial to you). This bit prevents any possibility of a critical hit.

Note that the back row bit is only applied to Edge if the weapon with the
back row bit (Boomerang for example) is equipped on his right hand (which
is a not a good check of course). The no critical bit is applied to various
weapons, including the Dwarf Axe, the Silence/Rune Staff, and every whip that
Rydia can equip.

This is not really fixed in FF4A... the "no critical bit" was removed, but
there is a different issue with the back row bit...


Back Row Bit is not adhered to:
(affects all GBA versions)

It has to be some clear oversight, but obviously nobody at TOSE can code
correctly. There are some clear issues at work, and I'll try to separate
them by version...

FF4A US/Jap 1.0 Version - Any character in the back row suffers from the
back row penalty outlined in the physical damage algo. The game totally
ignores the back row bit, so even weapons that are naturally back row
compatible such as whips automatically suffer by default.

FF4A Euro/Jap 1.1 version - In a poor attempt to "fix" this bug, any
character in the back row will never suffer from the back row penalty. In
fact, it doesn't even matter if the weapon is back row compatible or not.
A whip in the back row is just as good as a knife or dagger. However, Bows
and Arrows are the exception...

Both versions - I don't know if the programmers where drunk or smoking weed,
but in both versions, Bows+Arrows ALWAYS suffer from the back row penalty.
In essence, the only character that doesn't suffer from this penalty is Rosa
because of the Aim command... which sets hit rate to 255%.. the back row
penalty reduces that to 127% which is still more than enough to hit the target
at full damage. A character wielding a Bow+Arrow will deal full damage only
in the front row, which defeats the originally intended purpose of a Bow+Arrow
combo.


Battle engine bugs...

Auto battle scripts use crippled spell multipliers:
(affects all SNES versions)

This seems like an oversight, but it doesn't ultimately matter. When you
see auto battle script such as Tellah vs Golbez, the spell damage seems to
deal a lot less than you would normally expect. The problem is that the
scripts seem to only read the first byte of the spell multiplier and
subsequently the damage dealt reflects that.

This is fixed in FF4A.


Barbariccia/Valvalis Lightning weakness is not intended:
(affects all SNES versions)

The developers did not intend for Barbariccia to be weak against Lightning in
the Elementals battle. The battle script suggests she was only to be weak
against Holy. Obviously, the Lightning weakness bit was not removed
during the change, so go figure.

This bug is fixed in FF4A.


Barbariccia and Cagnazzo do not adhere to defense changes:
(affects FF4A US and Jap 1.0 versions)

These two bosses are the only monsters that enforce the evasion data set
for them in this game. Cagnazzo's "Shell Mode" and Barbariccia's "Spin Mode"
allow them to evade attacks very well and as a result take less damage.
However, this is not enforced in the versions mentioned.

This bug is fixed in the Euro and Jap 1.1 versions of the game.


Tellah vs Edward fight takes too long:
(affects FF4A US and Jap 1.0 versions)

In the Tellah vs Edward fight, Tellah's subpar hit rate and attack multiplier
tends to make him miss Edward. The problem is that it delays Edward's script
from being processed and move forward with the story. In the original game,
the missed attacks would be processed as hits in order for the scripted story
to continue.

This bug is fixed in the Euro and Jap 1.1 versions of the game.


Near "Infinite" Arrows Bug:
(affects all SNES versions)

Arrows are normally decremented after being used in a physical attack. However,
the game seems to special case the very last arrow. The last arrow is only
removed when the character's turn comes up again. This allows you to have
"infinite" arrows as long as that character's turn doesn't come up.

This bug is fixed in FF4A.


ATB System allows for characters to go out of turn:
(affects FF4A US and Jap 1.0 versions)

This is one of the most disturbing bugs that was not addressed before the
GBA port release. Basically, the ATB system allowed other characters to take
turns when they should not because their ATB bar was not filled or it was in
place of a monster's turn. In some instances, you will find a character
or monster never being able to take a turn due to this bug. Monsters tend to
be less than responsive.
You can easily get the feeling that this game was rushed.

This is fixed in the Euro and Jap 1.1 versions of the game.


Absorbing Magic Attacks Takes Precedence in Damage Algo:
(affects all SNES versions)

This is only exposed in FF4ET, but this is related to the battle engine's
design. The Red Dragon's battle script in FF4ET has an uninterruptible attack
which allows the Red Dragon to use its Heat Ray attack and a physical attack
all in one turn. However, the physical attack increases the healing dealt to
the target. What happens is that the damage is inverted at the end, which
converts the extra damage into healing as well. In FF4A, the damage dealt
is counted separately between each attack, which allows the Brachioraidos
Holy-Flare-Bio attack to deal only Bio damage to a single target that absorbs
Holy elemental attacks. Holy and Flare counter each other in the damage algo,
so Bio is left to be dealt.

This bug is fixed in FF4A.


Draculady isn't "hanging" from the ceiling:
(affects FF4A US and Jap 1.0 versions)

Units of the Draculady class were supposed to be located at the top of the
screen to give the impression that the monster is "hanging" from the ceiling,
but it was somehow overlooked in the port changes.

This bug is fixed in the Euro and Jap 1.1 versions.


Master Flan can't be targeted:
(affects FF4A US and Jap 1.0 versions)

This is most likely a symptom of the weird targeting in this game. In the
original game, there was some semblence of a targeting system where the
frontmost monster is always targeted and hitting a directional arrow would
make the targeting very easy. In the GBA port, this was removed or changed
for whatever the reason (in addition to removing rows for monsters) and it
became more difficult to target. The Master Flan cannot be targeted until one
of his flan companions died and it may be argued that this is a "feature".

This bug is fixed in the Euro and Jap 1.1 versions.


FF4A Beastiary does not count hatched monsters:
(affects FF4A US and Jap 1.0 versions)

This is a real pain in the ass given that the game's RNG was already poor.
Monsters that are hatched from eggs are not counted towards the hatched
monster's kill count. This is an oversight given that Mystery Eggs are part
of the Beastiary kill count.

This bug is fixed in the Euro and Jap 1.1 versions.


Command bugs...

Power/Deadly does not trigger HP counters (such as a Behemoth):
(affects FF4A US and Jap 1.0 versions)

I'm sure someone screwed up during the port.. the title says it all.
Power/Deadly applies the Charge status to Yang to deal damage just like Jump.
However, the counter check probably failed to consider Charge status.

This is fixed in FF4A Euro and Jap 1.1 versions.


Commands that deal magical or physical attacks don't cause counters:
(affects all SNES versions)

There are a number of commands that deal a physical or magical attack, such
as Recall/Remember and Aim. These commands however are not considered 
magical or physical (respectively), causing monsters to not react to the
attack. For instance, the Larva monster in FF4 does not respond to Tellah's
Recall/Remember command, even though a magic attack was made on it. The
Needler/Gatlinger monster does not respond to Rosa's Aim command.

These bugs are fixed in FF4A.


Psycho Edward bug:
(affects all GBA versions)

Due to how the Hide command was reworked in FF4A, the Hide command is issued
on Edward's logical turn when he is in Critical status. However, this change
does not check for Berserk status, so Edward goes into Hide and Berserk status.
This allows him to be near invincible until everyone else in the party is dead
which removes the Hide status from Edward.


Jump (and Hide) induces unintended battle bugs:
(affects all SNES versions)

A number of spells and scripted events behave oddly when Kain is the lone
character alive and Jumping. This causes unintended consequences of
monsters not changing form (like Leviathan) or monsters hitting themselves
(EvilWall) or even the game to freeze (EvilMask's Haste spell). The latter
bug is fixed in FF4ET, but this command (and subsequently Hide) was not
fully tested.

This bug does not affect FF4A.


Medicine consumes the last potion, but the command fails to execute:
(affects all SNES versions)

It seems like another last item exception bug for potions... Go figure.

This bug is fixed in FF4A.


Aim shoots dead people:
(affects all SNES versions)

This command wasn't tested against characters, so this allows you to shoot
characters that are under Stone and Death status. Normally physical attacks
are retargeted, but since this isn't considered a physical attack, it isn't
retargeted.


Weapon Duplication Bugs...

Weapon Duplication Trick/Bug:
(affects FF2US [both 1.0 and 1.1] and FF4)

To duplicate a weapon (or shield), a character has to be able to equip it and
the character selected must have a weapon equipped (or a shield if you are
duplicating a shield). In battle, the character must first select the Item
command. Find and select an open slot. Then, use the Up button to scroll all
the way up until the equipped weapon appears and select it to remove it from
the hand. Hit the B button to cancel out of menu and end the battle (it does
not matter how the battle ends). Once the battle ends, equip the weapon (or
shield) you want to duplicate on the character. You will then see a 2 next
to the duplicated item. Remove the weapon (or shield) so you can take advantage
of the duplicate item. Keeping the duplicate item equipped will not increase
your damage in battle.

This seems to be some oversight in decrementing the value on the hand where
the weapon was removed in battle, thus allowing you to duplicate the weapon or
shield.

This is fixed in FF4ET.


Weapon Duplication Trick/Bug with Avenger:
(affects FF2US [both 1.0 and 1.1] and FF4)

To duplicate a weapon (or shield), a Cecil has to equip a Bow+Arrow and have
the Avenger available. In battle, Cecil must first select the Item command.
Then, scroll up and select the arrows, and scroll down to an open spot and
select it. Afterwards, select the Avenger Sword and scroll all the way up
and select the equipped Bow. Now, you need the battle to end. Once the battle
ends, you can see a number associated with the empty slot. Whatever Cecil
can equip can be duplicated in that hand after the Avenger is removed from
his hand. If you have the Arrow in the right hand, you can duplicate weapons.
If you have the Arrow in the left hand, you can duplicate shields.

This problem is similar to the previously mentioned bug (although, the weapon
checking for 2 handed weapons is broken in all SNES versions).

This is fixed in FF4ET.


Characters can equip any weapon or shield after stealing Trick/Bug:
(affects all SNES versions)

When Edge successfully steals a weapon or shield, the game does not properly
apply the character-weapon/shield restriction when it is the first item of
its kind in your inventory and next character's turn directly follows the
steal. This allows you to equip stuff on characters that they cannot normally
equip, such as a Flame Spear on Rosa or Silver Shield on Rydia or even an
Earth Hammer on Kain (although, you have to remove the shield off his hand,
and equip the weapon on his left hand). You can equip the stolen stuff on any
character as long as they follow Edge after a successful Steal.

This does not affect FF4A.


Characters equipping a Cure/Healing Staff after using the steal-equip
anything bug
(affects all SNES versions)

The Marion/Marionette/Puppeteer class of monsters can have a Cure/Healing
Staff stolen. A side effect to equipping it with this trick is that the
spell-item casts Death/Fatal with the healing graphics instead of the regular
spell it normally casts. This effect lasts until the end of the battle.

This does not affect FF4A.


Status related bugs...

Poison resistance doesn't work:
(affects all SNES versions and FF4A US and Jap 1.0 version)

For both characters and monsters, poison resistance is not adhered to.
The only reason why Poison fails in boss battles is because of the boss bit
on the spell itself.

This is fixed in FF4A Euro and Jap 1.1 versions.


Stop screws with all the other timers:
(affects all SNES versions)

When Stop is used on a target that has a status timer such as HP Leak on it,
as soon as the timer restarts, many strange issues occur. For instance,
if Stop was applied to a character that was under HP Leak, the character will
be leaking HP indefinitely until an HP Leak attack such as Bio/Virus resets
the timer. A number of other status timers behave similarly, to potentially
keeping a perma-Paralyze to characters or causing the game to freeze when
used on enemies. Let's just say, someone really goofed here.

Sleep and Paralyze with Stop are fixed on monsters in FF2 US 1.1 and FF4ET
(the game won't freeze in those versions).


Dispel messes with Stop's timer:
(affects all SNES versions)

One of the lesser known things is that Dispel can remove Stop's timer on
a character with Count/Doom status. However, it doesn't properly check
for Count/Doom status, so when you cast Dispel on a character under Stop
status, they are under perma-Stop until Stop is cast on the character to
reset the timer. It doesn't affect enemies the same way unfortunately.

FF4A is not affected by this bug.


Gradual Petrification on monsters can freeze game:
(affects all SNES versions)

It doesn't seem like the Medusa Sword was tested thoroughly enough.
Occasionally inflicting monsters with Gradual Petrification can freeze the game
while the game has problems trying to figure out what to do when the timer
elapses.

Gradual Petrification was revamped as Slowing Petrify in FF4A, so it doesn't
inherit the same issues...


Charm prevents Slowing Petrify from being applied to monsters:
(affects all GBA versions)

If you Charm a monster such as the Black Lizard, Slowing Petrify is never
applied to the monster that is under the Charm status. It must be some sort
of accidental status priority bug or something.


Charm removes Berserk status:
(affects all GBA versions)

When Charm status is inflicted on a character with Berserk status and Charm
status is removed, the character behaves normally. This also affects the
Avenger Sword. There should not be any circumstances other than Black Hole
or the hidden spell that Zeromus casts when shaking to remove Berserk status
from an Avenger Sword wielding character.


Charm doesn't redirect Quake's targeting:
(affects all GBA versions)

If the character can cast Quake, the character under Charm status will cast
Quake and target the enemies, instead of targeting the characters. Normally,
targeting is switched under Charm status, so what happens is pretty much
a total oversight in testing.


Count/Doom status is buggy on monsters:
(affects all SNES versions)

A little known fact is that you can reflect Count/Doom onto the 
FatalEye/Allemagne/Ahriman monster. However, when the countdown ends, the
game waits for input before the monster dies. The problem is that command
you select may freeze the game. Commands such as Fight or Sneak will ensure
the game to freeze. Casting a magic, using an item, Parrying/Defending, or
changing rows avoids this issue.

This bug is fixed in FF4A.


Reflect bugs...

Spell palette changes when the spell is reflected:
(affects all SNES versions)

There are a number of spell palettes that when reflected look different. For
instance, Fatal/Death turns to bloody red when reflected. These are primarily
visual bugs and do not cause any other negative side effects.

This bug does not affect FF4A.


Spell graphics look odd when the spell is reflected:
(affects all GBA versions)

There are two commands that have strange graphics when their effects are
reflected. Miracle's Curaga+Esuna effect and Chant's Protect+Shell effect
look strange when reflected onto the enemy.


Reflected spells do not trigger proper counters/reactions:
(affects all SNES versions)

When a spell is reflected onto a monster, the monsters will not react properly
to the attack. For instance, reflecting Holy onto a Behemoth does not get it
to counter with Maelstorm. In knowing this, you can kill a number of monsters
and bosses with this behavior such as the 4 Elementals battle and Zeromus
earlier, since part of their battle scripts rely on HP checks. When these
checks are not performed, they are unable to change form or cast a hidden
healing spell. This is one of the more broken effects of the game.

This bug is mostly fixed in FF4A.


Reflected Holy does not trigger a counter from the Behemoth:
(affects both SNES and GBA versions)

If there is a Behemoth accompanied by another monster, a reflected Holy attack
on the Behemoth does not trigger the default physical attack due to HP damage.
Behemoths when accompanied by another monster will respond with a physical
attack if a Holy elemental spell is used on them. Reflect seems to avoid this
check.



11) Item Appendix
-----------------

Weapons will be listed in the following format:

Name: This is self explanatory.
Attack Power: This value is applied against a target's Defense to compute
the damage dealt. Bows are the exception and their "effective" power will also
be listed.
Hit Rate: This value is considered the "damage efficiency" of the Attack
Multiplier.
Stat Modifiers: Stat changes are listed here.
Elemental: A weapon powered by an elemental can have the damage dealt changed
by the target's weakness, resistance, or immunity.
Status Effect: If applicable, a weapon has a chance to inflict a status
effect onto a target.
Effective Against: If applicable, a monster that has the same attribute will
increase the attacker's attack power by 4x.
Other Properties: Important miscellaneous properties are listed here.
Item Spell: Some weapons can be used as items to cast spells that are attached
to it. The spell multiplier and "effective" multiplier will also be listed.
Equipped By: This is a list of characters that can use this weapon.
Value: If you could buy this item, this is the listed cost. Items are always
sold for half this value.
Notes: Any other relevant info will be provided here.


Armor will be listed in the following format:

Name: This is self explanatory.
Defense Power: This value is applied against an attacker's Attack Power to
compute the damage received.
Evade Rate: This value is the "evasion efficiency" of the Defense Multiplier.
Magic Defense: This value is applied against an spell's Spell Power to
compute the damage received.
Magic Evasion: This value is the "magic evasion efficiency" of the Magic
Defense Multiplier.
Stat Modifiers: Stat changes are listed here.
Elemental: If applicable, these are the elemental resistances provided by the
armor. However, certain resistances provide elemental weaknesses. Additionally,
elemental immunity or the ability to absorb elementals can be provided.
Status Immunity: If applicable, these are the status resistances provided by
the armor.
Resistant Against: If applicable, a monster that has the same attribute will
reduce the monster's Attack Power by 1/2.
Metallic: If set, the armor is considered metallic.
Equipped By: This is a list of characters that can use this armor.
Value: If you could buy this item, this is the listed cost. Items are always
sold for half this value.
Notes: Any other relevant info will be provided here.


Items will be listed in the following format:

Name: This is self-explanatory.
Status Effect: A status effect may be inflicted as part of the spell.
Elemental: When a spell is based on an elemental, the target's weakness,
resistance, or immunity can change the damage dealt. It is also possible that
the target can absorb the elemental magic attack.
Spell Power: For attack spells, this is generally applied against
Magic Defense of the target to compute the damage taken/dealt. The internal
value for most spells is Spell Power/4. The internal value for summons is
Spell Power/8.
Targeting: There are 8 different possibilities of targeting. Any spell that
always targets all opponents or all allies will avoid split damage.
Monsters casting spells tend to ignore spell targeting data and use their
battle script targeting data instead.
Hit Rate: The success of the spell is determined by this value.
Boss Bit: If set, this spell will always fail on monsters with the boss
bit set.
Solo Multiplier: If set, this spell will always have a spell multiplier
of 1 and the target will have at most a magic defense multiplier of 1.
Ignore Reflect: If true, this spell will ignore Reflect status on the target.
Value: If you could buy this item, this is the listed cost. Items are always
sold for half this value, except for certain items.
Notes: Any other relevant info will be provided here.


The items are listed in the order they are found internally.



(unnamed) - "Blank Arrow/Bow Slot"
---------
Attack Power: 1
Hit Rate: 50
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Everyone
Value: n/a
Notes: This equipment data is used when only the Bow or Arrow is equipped on
a character.


Fire Claw
---------
Attack Power: 0
Hit Rate: 80
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Fire
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Yang, Edge
Value: 350
Notes: Equipping a pair of these claws provides no additional benefit than
equipping one claw.


Ice Claw
--------
Attack Power: 0
Hit Rate: 80
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Ice
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Yang, Edge
Value: 450
Notes: Equipping a pair of these claws provides no additional benefit than
equipping one claw.


Thunder Claw
------------
Attack Power: 0
Hit Rate: 80
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Lightning
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: Machines
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Yang, Edge
Value: 550
Notes: Equipping a pair of these claws provides no additional benefit than
equipping one claw. This weapon has a great use in the Giant of Bab-il and
beating the EvilMask/Phase/Wicked Mask to a pulp.


Charm/Fairy Claw
----------------
Attack Power: 0
Hit Rate: 50
Stat Modifiers: +3 Agi
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: Charm
Effective Against: Giants
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Yang, Edge
Value: 600
Notes: 


Poison/Hell Claw
----------------
Attack Power: 0
Hit Rate: 90
Stat Modifiers: +3 Str
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: Poison
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Yang, Edge
Value: 650
Notes: 


Cat Claw
--------
Attack Power: 0
Hit Rate: 99
Stat Modifiers: +5 Str, Agi
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: Sleep
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Yang, Edge
Value: 700
Notes: 


Rod
---
Attack Power: 3
Hit Rate: 40
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: Magic Arrow, Spell Multiplier = 1
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Tellah, Palom, FuSoYa
Value: 100
Notes: The weapon's spell can substitute for physical attacks early on.


Ice Rod
-------
Attack Power: 5
Hit Rate: 45
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Ice
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: Reptiles
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: Ice/Blizzard, Spell Multiplier = 2
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Tellah, Palom, FuSoYa
Value: 220
Notes: This weapon's spell targeting is limited to single targets in FF4A.


Flame Rod
---------
Attack Power: 7
Hit Rate: 45
Stat Modifiers: +3 Wis
Elemental: Fire
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: Fire, Spell Multiplier = 3
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Tellah, Palom, FuSoYa
Value: 380
Notes: This weapon's spell targeting is limited to single targets in FF4A.


Thunder Rod
-----------
Attack Power: 10
Hit Rate: 50
Stat Modifiers: +3 Wis
Elemental: Lightning
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: Lit-1/Thunder, Spell Multiplier = 4
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Tellah, Palom, FuSoYa
Value: 700
Notes: This weapon's spell targeting is limited to single targets in FF4A.


Change Rod
----------
Attack Power: 15
Hit Rate: 50
Stat Modifiers: +5 Wis
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: Piggy, Spell Multiplier = 5, "Effective" Multiplier = 1
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Tellah, Palom, FuSoYa
Value: 1250
Notes: This is great for neutralizing monsters with any sort of magic.
If you search carefully, you will find this in a passage of an empty house at
the Mist Valley.


Charm/Fairy Rod
---------------
Attack Power: 30
Hit Rate: 55
Stat Modifiers: +10 Wis
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: Charm, Spell Multiplier = 6, "Effective" Multiplier = 1
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Tellah, Palom, FuSoYa
Value: 5000
Notes: 


Stardust Rod
------------
Attack Power: 45
Hit Rate: 60
Stat Modifiers: +15 Wis
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: Comet, Spell Multiplier = 7
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Tellah, Palom, FuSoYa
Value: 11000
Notes: This is inside a particular treasure chest that is guarded by a
Behemoth in the Lunar Subterrane.


Lilith Rod
----------
Attack Power: 13
Hit Rate: 10
Stat Modifiers: +5 Wis
Elemental: Drain
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: Undead!
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: Psych/Osmose, Spell Multiplier = 8
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Tellah, Palom, FuSoYa
Value: 1100
Notes: This is a rare drop by a Lilith and a slightly easier to obtain drop
by a Lamia Queen. Tellah benefits from this the most from the instant casting
time and the really high spell multiplier. Like all Drain weaponry, they don't
help your cause when fighting Undead.


Staff
-----
Attack Power: 4
Hit Rate: 45
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: Poisona, Spell Multiplier = 1
Equipped By: Young Rydia, Tellah, Rosa, Porom, Paladin Cecil, FuSoYa
Value: 160
Notes: This is only useful against Milon Z/Scarmaglione...


Cure/Healing Staff
------------------
Attack Power: 8
Hit Rate: 50
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: "Heal", Spell Multiplier = 2
Equipped By: Young Rydia, Tellah, Rosa, Porom, Paladin Cecil, FuSoYa
Value: 480
Notes: This is free reliable healing...


Silver/Mithril/Mythril Staff
----------------------------
Attack Power: 12
Hit Rate: 55
Stat Modifiers: +3 Will
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: Undead
Other Properties: Metallic
Item Spell: Basuna, Spell Multiplier = 1
Equipped By: Young Rydia, Tellah, Rosa, Porom, Paladin Cecil, FuSoYa
Value: 4000
Notes: The staff's magic is the equivalent of using a Unicorn Horn.


Power Staff
-----------
Attack Power: 30
Hit Rate: 99
Stat Modifiers: +10 Str
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: Berserk
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Young Rydia, Tellah, Rosa, Porom, FuSoYa
Value: 2000
Notes: This is a strange, but also incomplete weapon. The original data
suggests that Berserk should have been the item spell attached to it.
You can test this out in any SNES version with Reflect.


Lunar/Energy/Kinesis Staff
--------------------------
Attack Power: 36
Hit Rate: 60
Stat Modifiers: +10 Will
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: Dispel (except FF2US), Spell Multiplier = 1
Equipped By: Young Rydia, Tellah, Rosa, Porom, FuSoYa
Value: 7000
Notes: The spell is available in all versions except for FF2US.


Life/Sage's Staff
-----------------
Attack Power: 48
Hit Rate: 65
Stat Modifiers: +15 Will
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: Life, Spell Multiplier = 1
Equipped By: Young Rydia, Tellah, Rosa, Porom, FuSoYa
Value: 22000
Notes: This is dropped by monsters in a treasure chest containing 2 Warlocks/
DarkWizards/Dark Sages and 2 Karys/MoonGoddesses/Selene Guardians at the
Lunar Subterrane.


Silence/Rune Staff
------------------
Attack Power: 52
Hit Rate: 60
Stat Modifiers: +10 Will
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: Mute/Silence
Effective Against: Mages
Other Properties: No Critical Hits (SNES versions only)
Item Spell: Mute, Spell Multiplier = 1
Equipped By: Young Rydia, Tellah, Rosa, Porom, FuSoYa
Value: 15000
Notes: This is semi-common drop by the Marion/Puppeteer class of monsters.
In the SNES version of this game, equipping this will prevent Rosa from
dealing critical hits, particularly with the Bow+Arrow.


Shadow/Black/Dark Sword
-----------------------
Attack Power: 10
Hit Rate: 80
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Darkness
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Metallic
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 700
Notes: 


Darkness Sword/Shadow Blade
---------------------------
Attack Power: 20
Hit Rate: 85
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Darkness
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Metallic
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 1200
Notes: You can find this near the end of the first part of the Waterway
passage to Damacyan.


Black/Deathbringer Sword
------------------------
Attack Power: 30
Hit Rate: 90
Stat Modifiers: +5 Str, Agi, Vit, Wis, -5 Will
Elemental: Darkness
Status Effect: Death
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 2000
Notes: Even though this weapon can inflict Death status, it is not a sure bet.


Legend Sword
------------
Attack Power: 40
Hit Rate: 99
Stat Modifiers: +3 Will
Elemental: Holy
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Metallic
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Paladin Cecil
Value: Key Item
Notes: This weapon cannot be rid of until this is given to Kokkol, the
blacksmith, with the Adamant Rock...


Light Sword
-----------
Attack Power: 99
Hit Rate: 99
Stat Modifiers: +3 Will
Elemental: Holy
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Throwable, Metallic
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Paladin Cecil
Value: 42000
Notes: This weapon can be found in the Sealed Cave.


Excalbur/Excalibur Sword
------------------------
Attack Power: 160
Hit Rate: 99
Stat Modifiers: +10 Str
Elemental: Holy
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Throwable, Metallic
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Paladin Cecil
Value: 80000
Notes: This weapon is given to you at the earliest AFTER the Big Whale event.
You need to have given the Legend Sword and Adamant Rock to the Kokkol,
the blacksmith, for this item. Character limitations make it difficult for
the entire name to be displayed in the original SNES version.


Fire/Flame Sword
----------------
Attack Power: 65
Hit Rate: 80
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Fire
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Metallic
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil
Value: 14000
Notes: 


Ice Brand Sword
---------------
Attack Power: 75
Hit Rate: 80
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Ice
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Metallic
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil
Value: 26000
Notes: 


Defense/Defender Sword
----------------------
Attack Power: 105
Hit Rate: 90
Stat Modifiers: +15 Vit
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Throwable, Metallic
Item Spell: Protect (except FF2US), Spell Multiplier = 1
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil
Value: 57000
Notes: The item spell of Protect cannot be cast in FF2US, although you can
see it was the original intended spell when using Reflect. This is in a
treasure chest in the Land of Summoned Monsters dropped by
5 Warriors/Satanites.


Drain/Blood Sword
-----------------
Attack Power: 45 (77 for FF4ET)
Hit Rate: 50 (80 for FF4ET)
Stat Modifiers: -5 Str, Agi, Vit, Wis, Will
Elemental: Drain
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: Giants (except FF4ET), Flan/Pudding (except FF4ET),
Undead! (except FF4ET)
Other Properties: Throwable, Metallic
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil
Value: 13000
Notes: This is one of the few weapons that can kill Flan/Pudding monsters.
Drain weaponry is not meant to kill Undead. This weapon is very different in
FF4ET. This is in a treasure chest dropped by 2 StaleGolems/Steel Golems at
Cave Eblana.


Ancient Sword (Coral Sword in FF4ET)
-------------
Attack Power: 35 (45 in FF4ET)
Hit Rate: 77 (99 in FF4ET)
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a (Lightning in FF4ET)
Status Effect: Curse (n/a in FF4ET)
Effective Against: Spirits
Other Properties: Throwable, Metallic
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil
Value: 19000
Notes: On the surface, this is not a great weapon for Cecil when you find
it in the Waterway to Baron. However, Curse status allows for damage reduction
which can be beneficial. This weapon was revamped in FF4ET to become useful
against Cagnazzo.


Slumber/Sleep Sword
-------------------
Attack Power: 55
Hit Rate: 77
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: Sleep
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Throwable, Metallic
Item Spell: Sleep, Spell Multiplier = 8, "Effective" Multiplier = 1
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil
Value: 26000
Notes: The spell that comes with this weapon in the SNES version behaves
differently from Sleep, where success is directly connected to the Agility
of the target vs the caster. This is in a treasure chest at Eblan Castle with
a StaleGolem/Steel Golem and 4 Skuldiers.


Medusa Sword/Break Blade/Gorgon Blade
-------------------------------------
Attack Power: 77
Hit Rate: 66
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: Petrify (2/3 Stone)
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Throwable, Metallic
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil
Value: 34000
Notes: This is dropped by the Black Lizard classes (excluding the Basilisk)
and the Medusa classes as a rare item. This weapon's status effect can induce
freezes in the SNES version.


Spear
-----
Attack Power: 9
Hit Rate: 99
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Wind
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Metallic
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Kain
Value: 60
Notes: 


Wind Spear
----------
Attack Power: 55
Hit Rate: 80
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Wind
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Metallic
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Kain
Value: 7000
Notes: When Kain comes back in the Tower of Zot, Kain has this weapon equipped.
This weapon is better than the Drain/Blood Spear at this point in time.


Flame Spear/Fire Lance
----------------------
Attack Power: 66
Hit Rate: 80
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Fire, Wind
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Metallic
Item Spell: Fire2/Fira, Spell Multiplier = 4
Equipped By: Kain
Value: 11000
Notes: This weapon's spell targeting is limited to single targets in FF4A.


Blizzard Spear/Ice Lance
------------------------
Attack Power: 77
Hit Rate: 80
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Ice, Wind
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Metallic
Item Spell: Ice-2/Blizzara, Spell Multiplier = 4
Equipped By: Kain
Value: 21000
Notes: This weapon's spell targeting is limited to single targets in FF4A.


Dragoon Spear/Dragon Spear/Wyvern Lance
---------------------------------------
Attack Power: 99
Hit Rate: 80
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Wind
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: Dragons
Other Properties: Throwable, Metallic
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Kain
Value: 50
Notes: This is dropped by Blue Dragons as a rare drop or by Red Dragons and
Crystal Dragons (FF4A only) as a semi-rare drop. This is the best item to
get multiples of (w/o the duplication trick) to throw against Zeromus.


White Spear/Holy Spear/Holy Lance
---------------------------------
Attack Power: 109
Hit Rate: 80
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Holy, Wind
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: Spirits/Ghouls
Other Properties: Throwable, Metallic
Item Spell: White/Holy, Spell Multiplier = 2
Equipped By: Kain
Value: 74000 (37000 in FF4A)
Notes: This weapon is given to you as a prize for killing the Plague monster
at the Lunar Subterrane. The value has changed in FF4A because it is probably
porting mistake and it happens to be exactly this weapon's sell value in FF4.


Drain Spear/Blood Spear/Blood Lance
-----------------------------------
Attack Power: 88 (64 in FF4ET)
Hit Rate: 22 (90 in FF4ET)
Stat Modifiers: -10 Str, Agi, Vit, Wis, Will
Elemental: Drain
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: Giants (except FF4ET), Flan/Pudding (except FF4ET),
Undead! (except FF4ET)
Other Properties: Throwable, Metallic
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Kain
Value: 130
Notes: This is one of the few weapons that can kill Flan/Pudding monsters.
Drain weaponry is not meant to kill Undead. This weapon is very different in
FF4ET. This is in a treasure chest dropped by 2 Blackcats/Coeurls and
1 Lamia at Eblan Castle. This is one of the the few spears/lances that does
not have the Wind elemental applied...


Gungnir Spear/Gunge Lance
-------------------------
Attack Power: 92
Hit Rate: 80
Stat Modifiers: +15 Vit
Elemental: Wind
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Throwable, Metallic
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Kain
Value: 100000
Notes: This is the weapon Kain comes back with after the Giant of Bab-il event.


Short/Kunai Katana
------------------
Attack Power: 25
Hit Rate: 90
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Throwable, Metallic
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Edge
Value: 4000
Notes: 


Middle/Ashura/Ahura Katana
--------------------------
Attack Power: 32
Hit Rate: 90
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Metallic
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Edge
Value: 7000
Notes: 


Long/Kotetsu Katana
-------------------
Attack Power: 40
Hit Rate: 90
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Metallic
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Edge
Value: 11000
Notes: 


Ninja/Kikuichi/Kikuichimonji Katana
-----------------------------------
Attack Power: 48
Hit Rate: 90
Stat Modifiers: +5 Str
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Throwable, Metallic
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Edge
Value: 18000
Notes: This is found in a treasure chest in the Land of Summoned Monsters.


Murasame Katana
---------------
Attack Power: 55
Hit Rate: 90
Stat Modifiers: +5 Str, Vit, Wis, -5 Agi, Will
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Throwable, Metallic
Item Spell: Protect (except FF2US), Spell Multiplier = 1
Equipped By: Edge
Value: 22000
Notes: This is the prize for beating the Pale Dim/White Dragon in the Lunar
Subterrane. You could see this weapon's intended effect in FF2US with Reflect.


Masamune Katana
---------------
Attack Power: 65
Hit Rate: 99
Stat Modifiers: +3 Agi
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: /na
Other Properties: Throwable, Metallic
Item Spell: Fast/Haste, Spell Multiplier = 1
Equipped By: Edge
Value: 23000
Notes: This is the prize for beating the Ogopogo in the Lunar Core.


Assassin Dagger (original version)
---------------
Attack Power: 29
Hit Rate: 55
Stat Modifiers: +5 Str, Agi, Vit, -10 Wis, Will - SNES versions
-5 Str, Agi, Sta, Int, Spr - GBA versions
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: Death
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Throwable, Metallic
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Kain, Young+Older Rydia, Edward, Palom, Paladin Cecil, Edge
Value: 5000 (0 in FF4A)
Notes: This weapon is not normally found in the game. It was probably intended
to be given to Edge at some point...


Mute Knife/Mage Masher
----------------------
Attack Power: 35
Hit Rate: 75
Stat Modifiers: +5 Wis
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: Mute/Silence
Effective Against: Mages
Other Properties: Throwable, Metallic
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Kain, Young+Older Rydia, Edward, Palom, Paladin Cecil, Edge
Value: 13000
Notes: This weapon is in a treasure chest with 6 TinyToads and 1 ToadLady/
Toadwitch/Bog Witch at the Sylph's Cave. It is most effective with Edge,
particularly against Asura.


Whip
----
Attack Power: 20
Hit Rate: 50
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: Paralyze
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible, No Critical Hits (SNES versions only)
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia
Value: 3000
Notes: Rydia comes equipped with this when she comes back in the Dwarf's
Castle. This unfortunately ensures she cannot deal critical hits in the SNES
version.


Chain Whip
----------
Attack Power: 30
Hit Rate: 55
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: Paralyze
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Metallic, Back Row Compatible, No Critical Hits (SNES only)
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia
Value: 6000
Notes: 


Blitz Whip
----------
Attack Power: 40
Hit Rate: 60
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Lightning
Status Effect: Paralyze
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible, No Critical Hits (SNES versions only)
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia
Value: 10000
Notes: 


Flame/FireBute/Fire Whip
------------------------
Attack Power: 50
Hit Rate: 65
Stat Modifiers: +5 Str, Agi, Vit, -5 Wis, Will
Elemental: Fire
Status Effect: Paralyze
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible, No Critical Hits (SNES versions only)
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia
Value: 16000
Notes: This weapon is in a treasure chest in the Lunar Subterrane. This weapon
has a Spell Multiplier of 4, but it doesn't have a spell associated with it.
It probably would have gotten Fire3/Firaga like FF5's version of this weapon.


Dragon Whip/Dragon's Whisker
----------------------------
Attack Power: 55
Hit Rate: 75
Stat Modifiers: +5 Str, Agi, Vit, -5 Wis, Will
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: Paralyze
Effective Against: Dragons
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible, No Critical Hits (SNES versions only)
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia
Value: 31000
Notes: This weapon is dropped by Blue Dragons as a semi-rare drop at the Lunar
Subterrane and it is also dropped by Magic Dragons as a semi-common drop in
the Lunar Ruins.


Hand Axe
--------
Attack Power: 35
Hit Rate: 50
Stat Modifiers: +3 Str
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Throwable, Metallic
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid
Value: 7000 (0 in FF4A)
Notes: This weapon was probably intended to be available when Cid was around.
Animations for throwing axes exist in the SNES versions and were highly
exposable in FF4ET. However, this is missing altogether in FF4A.


Dwarf Axe
---------
Attack Power: 62 (70 in FF4ET)
Hit Rate: 69 (90 in FF4ET)
Stat Modifiers: +5 Str, Vit, -5 Agi, Wis, Will
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a (Mages in FF4ET)
Other Properties: Metallic, Back Row Compatible, No Critical Hits (SNES only)
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid
Value: 15000
Notes: This is one of the rare long-range weapons for a fighting character.
However, you lose the ability to deal critical hits in the SNES version.


Ogre/Ogrekiller Axe
-------------------
Attack Power: 80 (96 in FF4ET)
Hit Rate: 69 (85 in FF2US, 90 in FF4ET)
Stat Modifiers: n/a (+5 in FF4ET)
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: Giants
Other Properties: Metallic, No Critical Hits (SNES versions only)
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid
Value: 45000
Notes: This is another weapon that can remove the ability to deal critical
hits in the SNES versions.


Silver/Mithril/Mythril Knife
----------------------------
Attack Power: 20
Hit Rate: 99
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: Spirits/Ghouls
Other Properties: Throwable, Metallic
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Kain, Young+Older Rydia, Edward, Palom, Paladin Cecil, Edge
Value: 3000
Notes: 


Dancing Dagger
--------------
Attack Power: 28
Hit Rate: 94
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Throwable, Metallic
Item Spell: Dancing Dagger, Spell Multiplier = 8
Equipped By: Kain, Young+Older Rydia, Edward, Palom, Paladin Cecil, Edge
Value: 5000
Notes: This weapon is a decent attack alternative for Rydia when she comes
back. It can be bought at the Valley of Mist.


Silver/Mithril/Mythril Sword (Piggy's Stick in FF4ET)
----------------------------
Attack Power: 50 (51 in FF4ET)
Hit Rate: 80 (99 in FF4ET)
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a (Piggy in FF4ET)
Effective Against: Spirits (n/a in FF4ET)
Other Properties: Metallic (n/a in FF4ET)
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil
Value: 6000
Notes: This weapon is worthless in the original game, and was revamped in
FF4ET. It can be found in a pot along the passage to Odin. This is where
the original Piggy's Stick originated from. The fact that it isn't metallic
allows it to be used in the Magnetic Cave.


Spoon/Meat Cleaver/Kitchen Knife
--------------------------------
Attack Power: 255 (0 if equipped, for throwing only)
Hit Rate: 99
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Throwable, Metallic
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: n/a
Value: 10000
Notes: This throwing item is found if you complete a side quest once you
get out of the underground for the Big Whale scenario, but BEFORE you get
FuSoYa. This event is triggered once you've "talked" to Yang and/or the Sylph
in the Sylph's Cave. Edward hints this once you come out of the underground
to talk to Yang's wife, so you can start on this mini-journey. You will have
bring the Frying Pan to hit Yang on the head with, and return the Frying Pan
to Yang's Wife to obtain this item.


Crystal/Ragnarok Sword
----------------------
Attack Power: 200
Hit Rate: 99
Stat Modifiers: +15 Str, Vit, Will
Elemental: Holy
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: Undead
Other Properties: Metallic, No Critical Hits (SNES versions only)
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Paladin Cecil
Value: 10000
Notes: Even though this is the best weapon for Cecil overall (in both SNES
and GBA versions), the ability to not deal critical hits affects the SNES
version the most.


Shuriken
--------
Attack Power: 40 (60 in FF4ET)
Hit Rate: 99
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Wind
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Throwable, Metallic, Back Row Compatible
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: n/a
Value: 20000
Notes: Even though this is strictly a throwing weapon, it may have
been intended to be used as a consumable regular weapon.


Ninja/Fuma Shuriken
-------------------
Attack Power: 80 (100 in FF4ET)
Hit Rate: 99
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Wind
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Throwable, Metallic, Back Row Compatible, No Critical Hits
(SNES versions only)
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: n/a
Value: 50000
Notes: Even though this is strictly a throwing weapon, it may have
been intended to be used as a consumable regular weapon.


Boomerang
---------
Attack Power: 20
Hit Rate: 80 (90 in FF4ET)
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Wind
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Edge
Value: 3000
Notes: This weapon must in the Edge's right hand to take advantage of the
Back Row bit (and bug) in the SNES versions.


Full Moon Boomerang
-------------------
Attack Power: 40
Hit Rate: 85
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Wind
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Back Row COmpatible
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Edge
Value: 9000
Notes: This weapon must in the Edge's right hand to take advantage of the
Back Row bit (and bug) in the SNES versions.


Dreamer/Dreamer's Harp
----------------------
Attack Power: 8
Hit Rate: 85 (90 in FF4ET)
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: Sleep
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Two-Handed, Back Row Compatible (FF2US only)
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Edward
Value: 480
Notes: The FF2US version of this game has the strongest version of this weapon.
The original version (FF4) is the weakest. Weapons that happen to be two-handed
is the check for the Sing command in the SNES version... This weapon is better
for the battle at Fabul... 


Charm/Lamia/Lamia's Harp
------------------------
Attack Power: 18
Hit Rate: 90 (95 in FF4ET)
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: Charm
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Two-Handed, Back Row Compatible
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Edward
Value: 1200
Notes: The FF2US version of this game has the strongest version of this weapon.
The original version (FF4) is the weakest. Weapons that happen to be two-handed
is the check for the Sing command in the SNES version...


Dummy/None - Two Handed Crystal Sword
----------
Attack Power: 200
Hit Rate: 99
Stat Modifiers: +15 Str, Vit, Will
Elemental: Holy
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: Undead
Other Properties: Metallic, Two-Handed
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: n/a
Value: 125000 (0 in FF4A)
Notes: This dummied out weapon looks to be a copy of the Crystal Sword if it
were two handed. The value of the weapon is a pretty good indication that it
may have been a part of bigger plans...


Poison Axe
----------
Attack Power: 95 (105 in FF4ET)
Hit Rate: 60 (90 in FF4ET)
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: Poison
Effective Against: Giants
Other Properties: Throwable (FF4ET only), Metallic, Two-Handed
Item Spell: Poison/Venom, Spell Multiplier = 8 (7 in FF4A)
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid
Value: 94000
Notes: FF4ET's version of this weapon is clearly a good rebalancing effort.


Rune Axe
--------
Attack Power: 100 (120 in FF4ET)
Hit Rate: 60 (90 in FF4ET)
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: Mages
Other Properties: Throwable (FF4ET only), Metallic, Two-Handed
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid
Value: 123000
Notes: FF4ET's version of this weapon is clearly a good rebalancing effort.
This is a rare drop by the RedGiant/DemonSoldier/Giant Soldier series of
monsters. This is a semi-rare drop by the Iron Giant. The best chance to
obtain this weapon is in the Giant of Bab-il.


Silver/Mithril/Mythril Hammer
-----------------------------
Attack Power: 55
Hit Rate: 75 (85 in FF4ET)
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: Machines, Spirits
Other Properties: Metallic, Two-Handed
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Cid
Value: 8000
Notes: 


Earth/Gaea/Gaia Hammer
----------------------
Attack Power: 65
Hit Rate: 75 (85 in FF4ET)
Stat Modifiers: +5 Str
Elemental: Fire
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: Machines
Other Properties: Metallic, Two-Handed
Item Spell: Quake, Spell Multiplier = 1
Equipped By: Cid
Value: 12000
Notes: This weapon has a nice and cheap spell to kill Pudding/Flan monsters
in the Tower of Zot.


Wooden Hammer
-------------
Attack Power: 45
Hit Rate: 75 (85 in FF4ET)
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: Machines
Other Properties: Two-Handed
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Cid
Value: 80
Notes: This weapon originally had Lit-2/Thundara infused with it, which is
easily viewable with Reflect in the SNES versions of the game.


Avenger Sword
-------------
Attack Power: 80 (100 in FF4ET)
Hit Rate: 95
Stat Modifiers: +10 Str, Agi, Vit, -10 Wis, Will
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Throwable, Metallic, Two-Handed
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil
Value: 10
Notes: This weapon is very powerful and yet very buggy. The wielder is
automatically under Berserk status for the duration of the battle unless
affected by the Black Hole spell and Zeromus's shaking in FF4A. This is
a rare drop by the Behemoth and a semi-rare drop by the King Behemoth in FF4A.


Bow/Short Bow
-------------
Attack Power: 10, Effectively = 5
Hit Rate: 30 (40 in FF4ET)
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Wind
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Edward, Rosa, Palom, Porom, Paladin Cecil,
Cid, FuSoYa
Value: 220
Notes: All properties are not applied until the weapon pair is complete.


Cross Bow
---------
Attack Power: 20, Effectively = 10
Hit Rate: 35 (45 in FF4ET)
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Wind
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Edward, Rosa, Palom, Porom, Paladin Cecil,
Cid, FuSoYa
Value: 700
Notes: All properties are not applied until the weapon pair is complete.


Great Bow
---------
Attack Power: 30, Effectively = 15
Hit Rate: 40 (50 in FF4ET)
Stat Modifiers: +3 Str
Elemental: Wind
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Edward, Rosa, Palom, Porom, Paladin Cecil,
Cid, FuSoYa
Value: 2000
Notes: All properties are not applied until the weapon pair is complete.
However, stat changes are only applied in FF4A.


Archer/Killer Bow
-----------------
Attack Power: 40, Effectively = 20
Hit Rate: 50 (60 in FF4ET)
Stat Modifiers: +5 Str
Elemental: Wind
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Edward, Rosa, Palom, Porom, Paladin Cecil,
Cid, FuSoYa
Value: 3000
Notes: All properties are not applied until the weapon pair is complete.
However, stat changes are only applied in FF4A.


Elven/Elfin Bow
---------------
Attack Power: 50, Effectively = 25
Hit Rate: 75 (85 in FF4ET)
Stat Modifiers: +5 Wis
Elemental: Wind
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: Mages
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible
Item Spell: Shell, Spell Multiplier = 8 (1 in FF4A), Effectively = 1
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Edward, Rosa, Palom, Porom, Paladin Cecil,
Cid, FuSoYa
Value: 5000
Notes: All properties are not applied until the weapon pair is complete.
However, stat changes are only applied in FF4A. This weapon is found in the
Sylph's Cave. This can be combined with any arrow to always be effective
vs mages.


Samurai/Yoichi/Yoichi's Bow
---------------------------
Attack Power: 60, Effectively = 30
Hit Rate: 60 (70 in FF4ET)
Stat Modifiers: +10 Str
Elemental: Wind
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Edward, Rosa, Palom, Porom, Paladin Cecil,
Cid, FuSoYa
Value: 11000
Notes: All properties are not applied until the weapon pair is complete.
However, stat changes are only applied in FF4A. This weapon is found in a
hidden passage in the Town of Summoned Monsters...


Artemis/Artemis's Bow
---------------------
Attack Power: 80, Effectively = 40
Hit Rate: 70 (80 in FF4ET)
Stat Modifiers: +10 Str, Agi, Vit, -10 Wis, Will
Elemental: Wind
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a (Dragons in FF4ET)
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Edward, Rosa, Palom, Porom, Paladin Cecil,
Cid, FuSoYa
Value: 19000
Notes: All properties are not applied until the weapon pair is complete.
However, stat changes are only applied in FF4A. This weapon is rarely dropped
by the Kary/Moon Goddess/Selene Guardian. I believe this weapon is overrated,
given the options, unless you are using FF4ET's version.


Iron Arrow
----------
Attack Power: 5
Hit Rate: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Metallic, Back Row Compatible, Consumable
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Edward, Rosa, Palom, Porom, Paladin Cecil,
Cid, FuSoYa
Value: 10
Notes: All properties are not applied until the weapon pair is complete.
This hit rate of the arrow is irrelevant, since the bow's hit rate is used.


White/Holy Arrow
----------------
Attack Power: 10
Hit Rate: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Holy
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: Spirits/Ghouls, Undead
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible, Consumable
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Edward, Rosa, Palom, Porom, Paladin Cecil,
Cid, FuSoYa
Value: 20
Notes: All properties are not applied until the weapon pair is complete.
This hit rate of the arrow is irrelevant, since the bow's hit rate is used.


Fire Arrow
----------
Attack Power: 15
Hit Rate: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Fire
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible, Consumable
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Edward, Rosa, Palom, Porom, Paladin Cecil,
Cid, FuSoYa
Value: 30
Notes: All properties are not applied until the weapon pair is complete.
This hit rate of the arrow is irrelevant, since the bow's hit rate is used.


Ice Arrow
---------
Attack Power: 15
Hit Rate: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Ice
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible, Consumable
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Edward, Rosa, Palom, Porom, Paladin Cecil,
Cid, FuSoYa
Value: 30
Notes: All properties are not applied until the weapon pair is complete.
This hit rate of the arrow is irrelevant, since the bow's hit rate is used.


Lit/Thunder Arrow
-----------------
Attack Power: 15
Hit Rate: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Lightning
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: Machines
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible, Consumable
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Edward, Rosa, Palom, Porom, Paladin Cecil,
Cid, FuSoYa
Value: 30
Notes: All properties are not applied until the weapon pair is complete.
This hit rate of the arrow is irrelevant, since the bow's hit rate is used.


Darkness/Dark Arrow
-------------------
Attack Power: 20
Hit Rate: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: Blind/Darkness
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible, Consumable
Item Spell: 
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Edward, Rosa, Palom, Porom, Paladin Cecil,
Cid, FuSoYa
Value: 40
Notes: All properties are not applied until the weapon pair is complete.
This hit rate of the arrow is irrelevant, since the bow's hit rate is used.


Poison Arrow
------------
Attack Power: 30
Hit Rate: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: Poison
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible, Consumable
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Edward, Rosa, Palom, Porom, Paladin Cecil,
Cid, FuSoYa
Value: 70
Notes: All properties are not applied until the weapon pair is complete.
This hit rate of the arrow is irrelevant, since the bow's hit rate is used.


Mute Arrow
----------
Attack Power: 35
Hit Rate: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: Mute/Silence
Effective Against: Mages
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible, Consumable
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Edward, Rosa, Palom, Porom, Paladin Cecil,
Cid, FuSoYa
Value: 100
Notes: All properties are not applied until the weapon pair is complete.
This hit rate of the arrow is irrelevant, since the bow's hit rate is used.
The arrow is not as useful because of the Elven Bow...


Charm/Fairy Arrow
-----------------
Attack Power: 40
Hit Rate: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: Charm
Effective Against: Giants
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible, Consumable
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Edward, Rosa, Palom, Porom, Paladin Cecil,
Cid, FuSoYa
Value: 110
Notes: All properties are not applied until the weapon pair is complete.
This hit rate of the arrow is irrelevant, since the bow's hit rate is used.


Samurai/Yoichi Arrow
--------------------
Attack Power: 50
Hit Rate: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible, Consumable
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Edward, Rosa, Palom, Porom, Paladin Cecil,
Cid, FuSoYa
Value: 140
Notes: All properties are not applied until the weapon pair is complete.
This hit rate of the arrow is irrelevant, since the bow's hit rate is used.


Medusa Arrow
------------
Attack Power: 1
Hit Rate: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: Stone
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible, Consumable
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Edward, Rosa, Palom, Porom, Paladin Cecil,
Cid, FuSoYa
Value: 10
Notes: All properties are not applied until the weapon pair is complete.
This hit rate of the arrow is irrelevant, since the bow's hit rate is used.
Arrows can be stolen from the Black Lizard monsters at the earliest.


Artemis Arrow
-------------
Attack Power: 75
Hit Rate: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: Dragons
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible, Consumable
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Edward, Rosa, Palom, Porom, Paladin Cecil,
Cid, FuSoYa
Value: 200
Notes: All properties are not applied until the weapon pair is complete.
This hit rate of the arrow is irrelevant, since the bow's hit rate is used.
The best source of this weapon is from stealing from a Kary/MoonGoddess/Selene
Guardian.


(unnamed) - "Unequipped Head/Body/Arms"
---------
Defense Power: 0
Evade Rate: 10
Magic Defense: 0
Magic Evasion: 0
Stat Modifiers: 0
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Everyone
Value: n/a
Notes: This equipment data is used when the head, body, or arm is not
equipped.


Iron Shield
-----------
Defense Power: 1
Evade Rate: 20
Magic Defense: 0
Magic Evasion: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid
Value: 100
Notes: 


Shadow/Black/Dark Shield
------------------------
Defense Power: 1
Evade Rate: 22
Magic Defense: 0
Magic Evasion: 1
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 200
Notes: 


Black/Demon Shield
------------------
Defense Power: 2
Evade Rate: 24
Magic Defense: 0
Magic Evasion: 1
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 400
Notes: This can only be found in Fabul Castle AFTER the battle of Fabul.


Paladin/Light Shield
--------------------
Defense Power: 2
Evade Rate: 24
Magic Defense: 1
Magic Evasion: 1
Stat Modifiers: +3 Will
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: Undead
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Paladin Cecil
Value: 700
Notes: 


Silver/Mithril/Mythril Shield
-----------------------------
Defense Power: 3
Evade Rate: 26
Magic Defense: 2
Magic Evasion: 2
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: Spirits/Ghouls
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid
Value: 1000
Notes: This shield provides nothing really useful.


Fire Shield
-----------
Defense Power: 3
Evade Rate: 28
Magic Defense: 2
Magic Evasion: 2
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Ice, Fire (weakness)
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid
Value: 1250
Notes: 


Ice Shield
----------
Defense Power: 3
Evade Rate: 30
Magic Defense: 2
Magic Evasion: 2
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Ice, Fire (weakness)
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: Reptiles
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid
Value: 10000
Notes: 


Diamond Shield
--------------
Defense Power: 4
Evade Rate: 32
Magic Defense: 2
Magic Evasion: 3
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Lightning
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid
Value: 15000
Notes: 


Aegis Shield
------------
Defense Power: 4
Evade Rate: 34
Magic Defense: 5
Magic Evasion: 4
Stat Modifiers: +3 Wis
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: Stone, Petrify (2/3 Stone), Stiff (1/3 Stone)
Resistant Against: Mages
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid
Value: 20000
Notes: 


Samurai/Genji Shield
--------------------
Defense Power: 5
Evade Rate: 36
Magic Defense: 3
Magic Evasion: 4
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid
Value: 10
Notes: This shield is irrelevant at best when you find it at Bahamut's Cave.


Dragoon/Dragon Shield
---------------------
Defense Power: 6
Evade Rate: 38
Magic Defense: 3
Magic Evasion: 5
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Fire, Ice, Lightning
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: Dragons
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid
Value: 10
Notes: This shield can be found in some passageway in the Lunar Subterrane.


Crystal Shield
--------------
Defense Power: 7
Evade Rate: 40
Magic Defense: 4
Magic Evasion: 6
Stat Modifiers: +3 Will
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: Undead
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Paladin Cecil
Value: 10
Notes: This shield is dropped by some monsters in a treasure chest at the
Lunar Subterrane.


Iron Helm
---------
Defense Power: 3
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 0
Magic Evasion: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid
Value: 150
Notes: 


Shadow/Black/Dark Helm
----------------------
Defense Power: 4
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 0
Magic Evasion: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 360
Notes: 


Darkness/Hades Helm
-------------------
Defense Power: 5
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 1
Magic Evasion: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 640
Notes: This is found in a passage to the Octomammoth.


Black/Demon Helm
----------------
Defense Power: 6
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 1
Magic Evasion: 1
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 980
Notes: 


Paladin/Light Helm
------------------
Defense Power: 7
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 2
Magic Evasion: 1
Stat Modifiers: +3 Will
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: Undead
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Paladin Cecil
Value: 4000
Notes: It seems to be a tad expensive to buy this...


Silver/Mithril/Mythril Helm
---------------------------
Defense Power: 8
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 2
Magic Evasion: 2
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: Spirits/Ghouls
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid
Value: 3000
Notes: This is not worth paying for.


Diamond Helm
------------
Defense Power: 9
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 2
Magic Evasion: 2
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Lightning
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid
Value: 10000
Notes: It is hard to justify this helm's cost...


Samurai/Genji Helm
------------------
Defense Power: 10
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 6
Magic Evasion: 3
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid, Edge
Value: 10
Notes: This is one of the better pieces of equipment that Edge can equip.
It can be found in Bahamut's Cave.


Dragoon/Dragon Helm
-------------------
Defense Power: 11
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 7
Magic Evasion: 4
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Fire, Ice, Lightning
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: Dragons
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid
Value: 10
Notes: This can be found in a passage in the Lunar Subterrane that has this
set of equipment.


Crystal Helm
------------
Defense Power: 12
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 8
Magic Evasion: 5
Stat Modifiers: +3 Will
Elemental: Fire, Ice, Lightning
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: Undead
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Paladin Cecil
Value: 10
Notes: This is found in a treasure chest with a Warlock/Dark Sage/Dark Wizard
monster and a D. Fossil/Dinozombie/Dragonsaur.


Cap/Leather Cap
---------------
Defense Power: 1
Evade Rate: 5
Magic Defense: 1
Magic Evasion: 1
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Everyone except Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 100
Notes: 


Leather/Feathered Cap
---------------------
Defense Power: 2
Evade Rate: 6
Magic Defense: 3
Magic Evasion: 3
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Everyone except Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 330
Notes: 


Gaea/Triangle/Wizard's Hat
--------------------------
Defense Power: 3
Evade Rate: 7
Magic Defense: 5
Magic Evasion: 5
Stat Modifiers: +3 Wis, +3 Will
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Tellah, Rosa, Palom, Porom, Paladin Cecil,
FuSoYa
Value: 700
Notes: This is a nice hat for Cecil...


Wizard Hat/Priest Hat/Sage's Miter
----------------------------------
Defense Power: 5
Evade Rate: 8
Magic Defense: 7
Magic Evasion: 7
Stat Modifiers: +5 Will
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: Undead
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Tellah, Rosa, Palom, Porom, Paladin Cecil,
FuSoYa
Value: 2000
Notes: This is a decent investment for Cecil...


Tiara/GoldBand/Gold Hairband
----------------------------
Defense Power: 7
Evade Rate: 10
Magic Defense: 10
Magic Evasion: 9
Stat Modifiers: +10 Wis
Elemental: Lightning
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: Dragons
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Rosa, Porom
Value: 20000
Notes: This is one of the more useful and stronger hats for the girls.


Ribbon
------
Defense Power: 9
Evade Rate: 12
Magic Defense: 12
Magic Evasion: 12
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a (Fire, Ice, Lightning, Absorb in FF4ET)
Status Immunity: Death, Stone, Toad, Small, Piggy, Silence/Mute,
Blind/Darkness, Poison, Curse, Petrify (2/3 Stone), Stiff (1/3 Stone),
Sleep (FF4A only), Charm (FF4A only), Berserk (FF4A only)
Resistant Against: Mages
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Everyone except Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 10
Notes: This piece of valuable equipment has been a long standing tradition
of the FF series. There have had been changes made in some of the versions
of the game. FF4A added resistances to ultimately neuter this game and also
restrict a very powerful status in Berserk, fearing that Piggy was not
"the answer" to Berserk immunity or TOSE was simply clueless.
This is a rare drop that primarily come from Warlocks/Dark Sages/DarkWizards.


Headband/Bandanna/Twist Headband
--------------------------------
Defense Power: 1
Evade Rate: 10
Magic Defense: 1
Magic Evasion: 1
Stat Modifiers: +5 Str
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: Charm
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Everyone except Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 450
Notes: This piece of armor makes fighting Zemus's Mind pretty easy.


Bandanna/Green Beret
--------------------
Defense Power: 3
Evade Rate: 12
Magic Defense: 1
Magic Evasion: 1
Stat Modifiers: +5 Str, Vit
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Everyone except Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 1110
Notes: Edge starts with this equipment and it can be found via the Tower
of Bab-il Underground path.


Ninja Hat/DarkHood/Black Cowl
-----------------------------
Defense Power: 5
Evade Rate: 14
Magic Defense: 1
Magic Evasion: 1
Stat Modifiers: +3 Str, Agi, Vit
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: Sleep
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Everyone except Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 2000
Notes: The stat bonuses are great, but Edge needs more defense and magic
defense than this equipment provides. This is found in the Sealed Cave.


Glass Mask
----------
Defense Power: 30
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 0
Magic Evasion: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Immune (n/a in FF4A)
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Everyone except Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 5000
Notes: This piece of equipment doesn't work as intended in this game. The
original idea was to make existing resistances better, like the Cursed Ring,
However, it doesn't do that. In the SNES version, it would enforce 99% Evade
on the character that equips this. In FF4A, this behavior was removed and it
has become relatively useless. This is a rare drop from the EvilMask/Phase/
Wicked Mask monster classes...


Iron Armor
----------
Defense Power: 4
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 1
Magic Evasion: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid
Value: 600
Notes: 


Shadow/Black/Dark Armor
-----------------------
Defense Power: 5
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 1
Magic Evasion: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 1100
Notes: 


Darkness/Hades Armor
--------------------
Defense Power: 7
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 2
Magic Evasion: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 2000
Notes: This is found in the Waterway passage to the Octomammoth.


Black/Demon Armor
-----------------
Defense Power: 9
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 3
Magic Evasion: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 3000
Notes: 


Paladin/Knight's Armor
----------------------
Defense Power: 11
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 3
Magic Evasion: 1
Stat Modifiers: +3 Will
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: Undead
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Paladin Cecil
Value: 8000
Notes: 


Silver/Mithril/Mythril Armor
----------------------------
Defense Power: 13
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 4
Magic Evasion: 2
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: Spirits/Ghouls
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid
Value: 17000
Notes: This is simply not worth paying for.


Fire/Flame Armor
----------------
Defense Power: 15
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 4
Magic Evasion: 2
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Ice, Fire (weakness)
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid
Value: 30000
Notes: 


Ice Armor
---------
Defense Power: 17
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 4
Magic Evasion: 2
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Fire, Ice (weakness)
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid
Value: 35000
Notes: 


Diamond Armor
-------------
Defense Power: 19
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 4
Magic Evasion: 2
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Lightning
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid
Value: 40000
Notes: 


Samurai/Genji Armor
-------------------
Defense Power: 21
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 7
Magic Evasion: 4
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid, Edge
Value: 10
Notes: This set of armor can be found in Bahamut's Cave. This may be an
interesting upgrade for Edge, trading off any semblance of evasion for more
solid defense.


Dragoon Armor/Dragon Mail
-------------------------
Defense Power: 23
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 8
Magic Evasion: 5
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Fire, Ice, Lightning
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: Dragons
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid
Value: 10
Notes: This is part of an armor set found in a passage of the Lunar Subterrane.


Crystal Armor/Crystal Mail
--------------------------
Defense Power: 25
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 10
Magic Evasion: 6
Stat Modifiers: +3 Will
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: Toad, Mini, Piggy, Silence/Mute, Blind/Silence, Berserk
Resistant Against: Undead
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Paladin Cecil
Value: 10
Notes: This is found in a treasure chest filled with monsters in the Lunar
Subterrane.


Cloth/Clothes
-------------
Defense Power: 1
Evade Rate: 10
Magic Defense: 0
Magic Evasion: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Everyone except Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 50
Notes: 


Leather Robe/Jacket/Garb
------------------------
Defense Power: 2
Evade Rate: 10
Magic Defense: 1
Magic Evasion: 1
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: n/a
Equipped By: Everyone except Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 200
Notes: 


Gaea Robe/Gaia Gear
-------------------
Defense Power: 3
Evade Rate: 10
Magic Defense: 3
Magic Evasion: 3
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: Petrify (2/3 Stone), Stiff (1/3 Stone)
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Tellah, Rosa, Palom, Porom, Paladin Cecil,
FuSoYa
Value: 500
Notes: By extension, resistance to Gradual Petrification or Slowing Petrify
provides resistance to Stone status.


Wizard Robe/Priest Robe/Sage's Surplice
---------------------------------------
Defense Power: 5
Evade Rate: 10
Magic Defense: 5
Magic Evasion: 5
Stat Modifiers: +5 Will
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Tellah, Rosa, Palom, Porom, Paladin Cecil,
FuSoYa
Value: 1200
Notes: 


Black Robe
----------
Defense Power: 8
Evade Rate: 10
Magic Defense: 7
Magic Evasion: 7
Stat Modifiers: +5 Wis (+5 Will in FF2US and FF4ET)
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Tellah, Palom, FuSoYa
Value: 10000
Notes: The change made to the other SNES versions is simply strange.


Sorcerer/Light Robe
-------------------
Defense Power: 12
Evade Rate: 10
Magic Defense: 9
Magic Evasion: 9
Stat Modifiers: +5 Wis, WIll
Elemental: Lightning
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: Undead
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Tellah, Rosa, Palom, Porom, Paladin Cecil,
FuSoYa
Value: 30000
Notes: The armor is better than the Diamond Armor you can buy for Cecil...


White Robe
----------
Defense Power: 18
Evade Rate: 10
Magic Defense: 10
Magic Evasion: 6
Stat Modifiers: +15 Will
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: Blind/Darkness
Resistant Against: Spirits/Ghouls, Undead
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Young Rydia, Tellah, Rosa, Porom, Paladin Cecil, FuSoYa
Value: 10
Notes: This is not really a great upgrade for Rosa, particularly when it comes
to Magic Evasion.


Power Robe/Sash
---------------
Defense Power: 15
Evade Rate: 10
Magic Defense: 0
Magic Evasion: 0
Stat Modifiers: +15 Str
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Everyone except Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 4000
Notes: This should've been sold or dropped earlier in the game since it
provides no impact at the point of the game you could obtain it. Behemoths
class monsters drop this armor.


Heroine Robe/Minerva Jumpsuit/Minerva's Plate
---------------------------------------------
Defense Power: 20
Evade Rate: 40
Magic Defense: 5
Magic Evasion: 5
Stat Modifiers: +15 Str, Agi, Vit, -15 Wis, Will (+10 Str, Agi, Vit in FF4A)
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: Paralyze
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Rosa, Porom
Value: 40000
Notes: This is dropped by the Kary/MoonGoddess/Selene Guardian and
Palace Guards as a semi-rare drop. This is the best armor for Rosa despite
having poor magic defense, magic evasion, and reducing her magic power.


Prisoner Clothes/Convict Clothes/Prisoners' Wear
------------------------------------------------
Defense Power: 1
Evade Rate: 10
Magic Defense: 1
Magic Evasion: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: Sleep
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Everyone except Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 70
Notes: You can get this when Cid joins you or Rosa rejoining you from the
Tower of Zot. It's amusing how the armor is themed via its resistance.


Bard Clothes/Poet's Clothes/Bard's Tunic
----------------------------------------
Defense Power: 2
Evade Rate: 10
Magic Defense: 1
Magic Evasion: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: Silence/Mute
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Everyone except Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 70
Notes: It's amazing how you can't shut Edward up.


Karate/Kenpogi Suit
-------------------
Defense Power: 5
Evade Rate: 20
Magic Defense: 2
Magic Evasion: 1
Stat Modifiers: +3 Str
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Everyone except Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 4000
Notes: Instead of buying a Silver/Mithril/Mythril Armor, you could buy 4
of these instead for the best armor possible to use in the Magnetic Cave.


Bl.Belt/Black Belt
------------------
Defense Power: 10
Evade Rate: 30
Magic Defense: 3
Magic Evasion: 2
Stat Modifiers: +5 Str, Vit
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Everyone except Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 14000
Notes: Edge starts with this and you can obtain one in the Dwarf's Castle
AFTER the Calbrena/Calcobrena event.


Adamant Armor
-------------
Defense Power: 100
Evade Rate: 10
Magic Defense: 20
Magic Evasion: 12
Stat Modifiers: +15 Str, Agi, Vit, Wis, Will
Elemental: Fire, Ice, Lightning, Immune
Status Immunity: Death, Stone, Toad, Mini, Piggy, Silence/Mute, Blind/Darkness,
Poison, Curse, Paralyze, Sleep, Charm, Petrify (2/3 Stone), Stiff (1/3 Stone)
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Everyone except Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 10
Notes: A Pink Tail is dropped by the Pinkpuff/Flan Princess as a rare drop.
The monster themselves are the rarest formation in a small area of the Lunar
Subterraine. Many Alerts, patience, and luck is required to face them. These
monsters are located in two different areas in FF4ET. FF4A has one formation
with more of them in a "flan filled area" of the Lunar Ruins. This item is
traded with the tail collector east of Silvera/Mythril Town. The negative
side effect of equipping this armor in the SNES version is that the character
will be weak against Fire, Ice, and Lightning when this armor is not equipped.


Ninja Gear/Dark Gear/Black Garb
-------------------------------
Defense Power: 24
Evade Rate: 70
Magic Defense: 15
Magic Evasion: 8
Stat Modifiers: +3 Agi (+5 Agi in FF4ET)
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Edge
Value: 64000
Notes: This is in a treasure chest with 2 RedGiants/DemonSoldiers/
Giant Soldiers and fixes various issues with Edge.


Iron Gauntlet/Gloves
--------------------
Defense Power: 2
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 0
Magic Evasion: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid, Edge
Value: 130
Notes: 


Shadow Gauntlet/Black Gauntlet/Dark Gloves
------------------------------------------
Defense Power: 2
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 0
Magic Evasion: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 260
Notes: 


Darkness Gauntlet/Hades Gauntlet/Hades Gloves
---------------------------------------------
Defense Power: 3
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 0
Magic Evasion: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 520
Notes: This armor set can be found along the Waterway passage to the
Octomammoth.


Black Gauntlet/Demon Gauntlet/Demon Gloves
------------------------------------------
Defense Power: 4
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 0
Magic Evasion: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 800
Notes: 


Gauntlets/Paladin Gauntlet
--------------------------
Defense Power: 5
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 1
Magic Evasion: 1
Stat Modifiers: +3 Will
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: Undead
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Paladin Cecil
Value: 3000
Notes: 


Silver Gauntlet/Mithril Gauntlet/Mythril Gloves
-----------------------------------------------
Defense Power: 6
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 2
Magic Evasion: 2
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: Spirits/Ghouls
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid, Edge
Value: 2000
Notes: This is not worth buying for the most part...


Diamond Gauntlet/Gloves
-----------------------
Defense Power: 7
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 3
Magic Evasion: 3
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Lightning
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid
Value: 5000
Notes: This is not much of an improvement...



Zeus Gauntlet/Giant Gauntlet/Giant's Gloves
-------------------------------------------
Defense Power: 10
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 0
Magic Evasion: 0
Stat Modifiers: +10 Str, Vit
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: Mini
Resistant Against: Giants
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Kain, Yang, Paladin Cecil, Cid, Older Rydia (SNES only), Edge
Value: 10
Notes: Although this piece of equipment provides no magic defense or magic
evade, it is relatively insignificant relative to the benefits. This is
commonly dropped by StaleGolems/Steel Golems. It is also a rare drop by the
Ogre class of monsters.


Samurai Gauntlet/Genji Gauntlet/Genji Gloves
--------------------------------------------
Defense Power: 8
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 5
Magic Evasion: 3
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid, Edge
Value: 10
Notes: This is not a good upgrade for Edge. This armor set can be found in
Bahamut's Cave.


Dragoon Gauntlet/Dragon Gauntlet/Dragon Gloves
----------------------------------------------
Defense Power: 9
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 6
Magic Evasion: 3
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Fire, Ice, Lightning
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: Dragons
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid
Value: 10
Notes: This armor set can be find in a hidden passageway at the Lunar
Subterrane.


Crystal Gauntlet/Gloves
-----------------------
Defense Power: 10
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 7
Magic Evasion: 4
Stat Modifiers: +3 Will
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: Undead
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Paladin Cecil
Value: 10
Notes: This is found in a treasure chest with monsters in the Lunar Subterrane.


Iron Ring/Bangle/Armlet
-----------------------
Defense Power: 2
Evade Rate: 10
Magic Defense: 2
Magic Evasion: 1
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Tellah, Edward, Rosa, Yang, Palom, Porom
Edge, FuSoYa
Value: 100
Notes: 


Ruby Ring/Armlet
----------------
Defense Power: 0
Evade Rate: 10
Magic Defense: 3
Magic Evasion: 2
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: Piggy
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Everyone except Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 1000
Notes: Although the resistance is only worth mentioning when it comes to the
second part of the Dark Elf battle, this is better than taking extra damage
from Vampire/Blood Suck attacks.


Silver Ring/Armlet
------------------
Defense Power: 4
Evade Rate: 10
Magic Defense: 4
Magic Evasion: 4
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: Spirits/Ghouls
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Tellah, Edward, Rosa, Yang, Palom, Porom
Edge, FuSoYa
Value: 650
Notes: There's a lot more use for this piece of equipment if you are patient
to get some drops from the TinyMages.


Strength Ring/Power Wrist/Power Armlet
--------------------------------------
Defense Power: 2
Evade Rate: 10
Magic Defense: 2
Magic Evasion: 2
Stat Modifiers: +5 Str
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Kain, Young Rydia (FF4A only), Yang, Paladin Cecil, Cid,
Older Rydia, Edge
Value: 760
Notes: This is an "upgrade" for most fighters even if the defense is
sacrificed. Even though it is commonly dropped by Ogres at the earliest, it
is metallic...


Rune Ring/Armlet
----------------
Defense Power: 5
Evade Rate: 10
Magic Defense: 8
Magic Evasion: 8
Stat Modifiers: +3 Wis, Will
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: Silence/Mute
Resistant Against: Mages
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Tellah, Edward, Rosa, Yang, Palom, Porom
Edge, FuSoYa
Value: 2000
Notes: This piece of equipment will be useful far longer than expected... It
can be obtained early on from a semi-common drop of the Marion/Marionette/
Puppeteer.


Crystal Ring
------------
Defense Power: 20
Evade Rate: 15
Magic Defense: 12
Magic Evasion: 10
Stat Modifiers: +5 Agi
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: Charm, Sleep, Paralyze
Resistant Against: Dragons
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Everyone except Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 3000
Notes: This is a rare drop by Red Dragons and FF4A's Crystal Dragons.


Diamond Ring
------------
Defense Power: 6
Evade Rate: 10
Magic Defense: 8
Magic Evasion: 6
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Lightning
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia, Tellah, Edward, Rosa, Yang, Palom, Porom
Edge, FuSoYa
Value: 4000
Notes: This is the great option for Edge, rather than the others because of
the abundance of Lightning resistant equipment available.


Protect Ring
------------
Defense Power: 10
Evade Rate: 15
Magic Defense: 12
Magic Evasion: 10
Stat Modifiers: +15 Vit
Elemental: Fire, Ice, Lightning
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: No
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Everyone except Dark Knight Cecil
Value: 6000
Notes: This is a rare drop by the FatalEye/Allemagne/Ahirman and a semi-rare
drop by FF4A's Magic Dragon. This ring isn't actually stronger than the Crystal
Ring, but the elemental resistances make it very valuable.


Cursed Ring
-----------
Defense Power: 0
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 0
Magic Evasion: 0
Stat Modifiers: -15 Str, Agi, Vit, Wis, Will
Elemental: Absorb
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Everyone
Value: 10
Notes: This is a rare drop and it is generally associated with the Spirit and
Soul monsters. It is best to obtain it at Mt. Ordeals for the best possible
formations. This ring converts all elemental resistances into absorbable
damage. This has no use for a Dark Knight since there is no equipment to
take advantage of this. If you have taken a look at how absorb works, you
will see that to increase the healing dealt, there are certain stats that
have to be reduced in order for that to happen.


Bomb Fragment
-------------
Status Effect: n/a
Elemental: Fire
Spell Power: 12
Targeting: all enemies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: No
Value: 100
Notes: 


Bomb's Right Arm/Bomb Arm
-------------------------
Status Effect: n/a
Elemental: Fire
Spell Power: 64
Targeting: all enemies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: No
Value: 500
Notes: 


Antarctic Wind
-------------
Status Effect: n/a
Elemental: Ice
Spell Power: 12
Targeting: all enemies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: No
Value: 100
Notes: 


Arctic Wind
-----------
Status Effect: n/a
Elemental: Ice
Spell Power: 64
Targeting: all enemies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: No
Value: 500
Notes: 


Wrath/Rage of Zeus
------------------
Status Effect: n/a
Elemental: Lightning
Spell Power: 12
Targeting: all enemies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: No
Value: 100
Notes: 


Wrath/Rage of the Gods
----------------------
Status Effect: n/a
Elemental: Lightning
Spell Power: 64
Targeting: all enemies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: No
Value: 500
Notes: 


Stardust
--------
Status Effect: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: 80
Targeting: all enemies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: No
Value: 1000
Notes: 


Lilith's Kiss/Kiss of Lilith
----------------------------
Status Effect: n/a
Elemental: Drain
Spell Power: 32
Targeting: one target, default enemy
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: No
Value: 200
Notes: This is a stronger version of Psych/Osmose, which also ignores the
Drain elemental in the magic algo.


Vampire Fang
------------
Status Effect: n/a
Elemental: Drain
Spell Power: 64
Targeting: one target, default enemy
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: No
Value: 50
Notes: This is a stronger version of Drain, which also ignores the Drain
elemental in the magic algo.


Bacchus' Wine/Bacchus's Cider
-----------------------------
Status Effect: Berserk
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: no target/self
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: Yes
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: Yes
Value: 200
Notes: 


Hermes' Shoes
-------------
Status Effect: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: -8 Speed Modifier
Targeting: no target/self
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: Yes
Value: 200
Notes: The default speed modifier is 16 for all targets.
The item decreases this modifier by 8 points. The lowest this modifier can be
is at 12. At 12, the target's ATB seems to increase by 25%. This spell
quickens every timer, except for Count/Doom.


Copper Hourglass
----------------
Status Effect: Stop
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: timer = 10
Targeting: all enemies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: Yes
Solo Multiplier: Yes
Ignore Reflect: No
Value: 100
Notes: 


Silver Hourglass
----------------
Status Effect: Stop
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: timer = 50
Targeting: all enemies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: Yes
Solo Multiplier: Yes
Ignore Reflect: No
Value: 500
Notes: There's a limited number of this item...


Gold/Golden Hourglass
---------------------
Status Effect: Stop
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: timer = 200
Targeting: all enemies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: Yes
Solo Multiplier: Yes
Ignore Reflect: No
Value: 1000
Notes: 


Spider Web/Spider's Silk
------------------------
Status Effect: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: +16 Speed Modifier
Targeting: all enemies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: No
Value: 100
Notes: The default speed modifier is 16 for all targets.
The item increases this modifier by 16 points. The highest this modifier can be
is at 32. At 32, the target's ATB is twice as slow. This spell slows down
every timer, except for Count/Doom. You need to only use this item once on
a boss to maximize its use since most bosses don't cast Fast/Haste on
themselves.


Scape Doll/Decoy
----------------
Status Effect: Image (2)
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: no target/self
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: No
Value: 50
Notes: 


Red Fang/FireBomb
-----------------
Status Effect: n/a
Elemental: Fire
Spell Power: 2 (Current HP Modifier)
Targeting: all enemies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: Yes
Value: 100
Notes: 


White Fang
----------
Status Effect: n/a
Elemental: Ice
Spell Power: 2 (Current HP Modifier)
Targeting: all enemies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: Yes
Value: 100
Notes: 


Blue Fang/Lit-Bolt
------------------
Status Effect: n/a
Elemental: Lightning
Spell Power: 2 (Current HP Modifier)
Targeting: all enemies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: Yes
Value: 100
Notes: It's amazing how you can see this item used by Cecil in the opening
sequence and yet normally never obtain it in FF2US.


Light Curtain
-------------
Status Effect: Wall/Reflect
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: timer = 10
Targeting: no target/self
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: No
Value: 1000
Notes: 


Bomb Spirit/Core
----------------
Status Effect: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: damage = caster's current HP
Targeting: one target, default enemy
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: Yes
Value: 10
Notes: If you want to experience what a Bomb feels like when it explodes,
this item accomplishes that feat. The character that uses this item will lose
all their HP when using this item. Note that even if last enemy on the field
dies from this attack, the game is still over since your party's living
status takes precedence.


Lunar/Moon Curtain
------------------
Status Effect: Wall/Reflect, Barrier
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: timer = 20
Targeting: no target/self
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: No
Value: 2000
Notes: This version of the curtain does last longer, but most importantly
gives immunity to all physical attacks on the item user as part of the
Barrier status. Barrier status can be removed by Dispel or Black Hole. If
you are dumb and reflect this item onto an enemy, particularly a monster with
the boss bit, they are invincible since Dispel doesn't work on those monsters.


Silence Bell/Bell of Silence
----------------------------
Status Effect: Mute/Silence
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: all enemies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: Yes
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: No
Value: 100
Notes: 


Earth/Gaia Drum
---------------
Status Effect: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: 80
Targeting: all enemies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: Yes
Value: 500
Notes: This resembles most like the monster Quake version of the spell.


Crystal
-------
Status Effect: n/a
Elemental: Darkness
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: all enemies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: Yes
Value: Key Item
Notes: It's actually ironic that the Crystal is the only Darkness elemental
since Dark Knight Cecil's weaponry. This can only be used by Cecil. This item
is not consumed in the SNES versions. Obviously, this item is supposed to
be used against Zeromus.


Kuar's/Coeurl's Whisker
-----------------------
Status Effect: Death
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: one target, default enemy
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: Yes
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: No
Value: 1000
Notes: 


Book of Knowledge/Grimoire
--------------------------
Status Effect: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: all enemies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: Yes
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: Yes
Value: 10
Notes: This item selects any summon that is obtainable, except for Asura and
the special monster summons (Imp/Goblin, Bomb, Mage/Mind Flayer, and
Cockatrice) and uses them to attack. Summons with single attacks will randomly
target a monster. Odin will succeed 100% of the time unless the monster has
the boss bit. The boss bit on the item data itself has no impact.


Monster Picturebook/Beastiary
-----------------------------
Status Effect: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: one target, default enemy
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: Yes
Value: 980
Notes: This item is the same as Peep/Scan, and it is usable on bosses. This
cannot be successfully used on Zeromus based on how his HP works...


Alarm Clock
-----------
Status Effect: removes Sleep
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: all allies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: No
Value: 10
Notes: 


Unicorn Horn
------------
Status Effect: remove Berserk, Charm, Sleep, Paralyze
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: all allies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: No
Value: 10
Notes: This works virtually like the Basuna spell.


Potion/Cure1 Potion
-------------------
Status Effect: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: 8
Targeting: one target, default ally
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: Yes
Value: 30
Notes: Using a potion outside of battle will use the maximum possible value
in battle, which is also the same as multiplying the spell power by 12.


Hi-Potion/Cure2 Potion
----------------------
Status Effect: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: 40
Targeting: one target, default ally
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: Yes
Value: 150
Notes: Using a potion outside of battle will use the maximum possible value
in battle, which is also the same as multiplying the spell power by 12.


X-Potion/Cure3 Potion
---------------------
Status Effect: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: 160
Targeting: one target, default ally
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: Yes
Value: 3000
Notes: Using a potion outside of battle will use the maximum possible value
in battle, which is also the same as multiplying the spell power by 12.


Ether/Ether1 Potion
-------------------
Status Effect: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: 4
Targeting: one target, default ally
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: Yes
Value: 10000 (1)
Notes: Using a potion outside of battle will use the maximum possible value
in battle, which is also the same as multiplying the spell power by 12.
This item is used to increase MP.


Dry Ether/Ether2 Potion
-----------------------
Status Effect: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: 12
Targeting: one target, default ally
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: Yes
Value: 50000 (1)
Notes: Using a potion outside of battle will use the maximum possible value
in battle, which is also the same as multiplying the spell power by 12.
This item is used to increase MP.


Elixir
------
Status Effect: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: one target, default ally
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: Yes
Value: 100000 (1)
Notes: This potion heals all HP and MP on a target.


Phoenix Down/Life Potion
------------------------
Status Effect: removes Death status
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: one target, default ally
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: Yes
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: Yes
Value: 150
Notes: This works exactly like the Life spell.


Gold Needle
-----------
Status Effect: removes Stone
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: one target, default ally
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: Yes
Value: 400
Notes: This item can be wasted on the twin statues at Baron, but that won't
ever change their statuses.


Maiden's Kiss
-------------
Status Effect: removes Toad
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: one target, default ally
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: Yes
Value: 60
Notes: 


Lucky Mallet
------------
Status Effect: removes Mini
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: one target, default ally
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: Yes
Value: 80
Notes: 


Diet Food
---------
Status Effect: removes Piggy
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: one target, default ally
Hit Rate: 20
Boss Bit: Yes (No in FF4A)
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: Yes
Value: 100
Notes: It looks like a data error... not that it matters.


Echo Herbs
----------
Status Effect: removes Mute
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: one target, default ally
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: Yes
Value: 50
Notes: 


Eye Drops
---------
Status Effect: removes Blind
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: one target, default ally
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: Yes
Value: 30
Notes: 


Antidote
--------
Status Effect: removes Poison
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: one target, default ally
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: Yes
Value: 40
Notes: 


Cross
-----
Status Effect: removes Curse
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: one target, default ally
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: Yes
Value: 100
Notes: This is the only consumable item that has absolutely no use outside
of battle.


Remedy
------
Status Effect: removes Stone, Frog/Toad, Mini, Piggy, Silence, Blind, Poison,
Curse, Paralyze, Sleep, Charm, Gradual Petrification, Berserk (FF4A only)
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: one target, default ally
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: No
Solo Multiplier: No
Ignore Reflect: Yes
Value: 5000 (100 in FF2US and FF4ET)
Notes: 


Siren/Alarm
-----------
Value: 100
Notes: This item starts a battle with the rarest possible monster formation
in the current area. This item will not work in FF4ET. If the party is
standing on a tile that normally doesn't cause a random battle to be fought,
a battle will not be started when this item is used.


Golden Apple
------------
Value: 1000
Notes: Using this item increases the targeted character's maxHP by 100.
HP is capped at 9999 for every character and you can keep feeding them this
item needlessly even when their HP is maxed. This is very useful for Rydia.


Silver Apple
------------
Value: 100
Notes: Using this item increases the targeted character's maxHP by 50.
HP is capped at 9999 for every character and you can keep feeding them this
item needlessly even when their HP is maxed.


Soma Drop
---------
Value: 10
Notes: Using this item increases the targeted character's maxMP by 10.
MP is capped at 999 for every character and you can keep feeding them this
item needlessly even when their MP is maxed. You can even give characters
that normally don't have MP this item....


Tent
----
Value: 100 (200 in FF2US and FF4ET)
Notes: While on the overworld or on a save point, this heals all characters
1000HP and 100MP and removes all negative statuses excluding Float and Death.


Cabin/Cottage
-------------
Value: 500 (1000 in FF2US and FF4ET)
Notes: While on the overworld or on a save point, this heals all characters to
the max for both HP and MP and removes all negative statuses excluding Float.


Playboy Magazine
----------------
Value: 580
Notes: There is only one question to ask... why does Rosa not care? The
music played is the same one used for the Calbrena/Calcobrena battle.


Emergency Exit
--------------
Value: 180
Notes: This is Exit/Teleport in item form.


Dwarf/Dwarven Bread
-------------------
Value: 100
Notes: This is Sight in item form. There must be something strange in the
bread to give it this power...


Imp/Goblin Summon
-----------------
Value: 100
Notes: This item will drop regardless of whether or not Rydia is in the party.
Rydia only needs to be present to learn the summon. It doesn't matter which
form she is in (young or older). Most members of this class drop this item.
The best chance of obtaining it is in the Land of Summoned Monsters where they
are summoned at will by them.


Bomb Summon
-----------
Value: 200
Notes: This item will drop regardless of whether or not Rydia is in the party.
Rydia only needs to be present to learn the summon. It doesn't matter which
form she is in (young or older). This is only dropped from the later Bomb
incarnations of this enemy. Don't expect this item to be dropped on Mt. Hobs.
Random encounters on the moon's surface are generally your best bet or the
special bomb area in FF4A's Lunar Ruins that has the common bomb formations.


Cockatrice Summon
-----------------
Value: 300
Notes: This item will drop regardless of whether or not Rydia is in the party.
Rydia only needs to be present to learn the summon. It doesn't matter which
form she is in (young or older). All members of this class drop this item.
The best place to encounter these monsters is with the Alert/Siren item in
the area around Mysidia or in Rydia's Trial (which is FF4A only).


Mage/Mind Flayer Summon
-----------------------
Value: 400
Notes: This item will drop regardless of whether or not Rydia is in the party.
Rydia only needs to be present to learn the summon. It doesn't matter which
form she is in (young or older). The best method to obtain this item is
using many Alert/Siren items in the first floor of the Magnetic Cave or with
encounters in Rydia's Trial (which is FF4A only).


Carrot/Gysahl Greens/Gysahl's Vegetables
----------------------------------------
Value: 50
Notes: This item is used to summon the Big Chocobo in the Chocobo Forest.


Membership Pass
---------------
Value: 10000
Notes: This item allows you to see "more" of Troia in the Pub/Cafe area...


Gysahl Whistle/Gysahl's Flute
-----------------------------
Value: 20000
Notes: This item is used to summon the Big Chocobo anywhere.


Package/Bomb Ring
-----------------
Value: Key Item
Notes: This item is received at the beginning of the game. It is removed upon
arriving at Mist as an event trigger.


Baron Key
---------
Value: Key Item
Notes: This item is obtained after defeating Yang. It can be used on the door
at the westernmost side of Baron. It can be optionally used on the
Weapon+Armor shop door.


Sand Ruby/Light of the Desert
-----------------------------
Value: Key Item
Notes: This item is obtained after defeating the Antlion. It is used on Rosa
back in Kaipo.


Earth Crystal
-------------
Value: Key Item
Notes: This item is obtained in the Crystal Room of the Magnetic Cave. It is
removed once you meet with Golbez in the Tower of Zot.


Magma Rock/Key
--------------
Value: Key Item
Notes: This item is obtained after leaving the Tower of Zot destruction event.
It is used at Agart to open the way to the Underground.


Luca Key/Luka's Necklace/Luca's Necklace
----------------------------------------
Value: Key Item
Notes: This item is obtained after talking to King Giott after obtaining
the Falcon airship. It is used to open the entrance to the Sealed Cave.


Twin Harp/Echoer
----------------
Value: Key Item
Notes: This item is obtained when talking to Edward in Toroia/Troia Castle.
It is a required item so that the Dark Elf doesn't kick your ass mercilessly.


Dark/Darkness Crystal
---------------------
Value: Key Item
Notes: This item is obtained in the Crystal Room of the Sealed Cave. It can
also be obtained by exposing a bug in the Warp code at the Dwarf's Castle in
the SNES versions excluding FF4ET. This item is removed as soon as you reach
the Sealed Cave's entrance.


Rat Tail
--------
Value: Key Item
Notes: This item is obtained in the Land of Summoned monsters (if you use your
brain). It is traded with the tail collector that lives east of Silvera/
Mythril Town/Mithril Town.


Adamantite/Adamant
------------------
Value: Key Item
Notes: This item is obtained by trading the Rat Tail. It is to be given to
the Kokkel the Blacksmith with the Legend Sword in the underground to receive
the Excalibur Sword. MAKE SURE the Big Whale appears so you can obtain the
weapon immediately afterwards.


Frying Pan
----------
Value: Key Item
Notes: This item is obtained by talking to Yang's Wife assuming that you have
talked to Yang in the Sylph's Cave. It is used on Yang and you will then
obtain the Sylph summon early. Once completed, talk to Yang's Wife immediately
afterwards to obtain the Spoon/Butcher's Cleaver/Knife. Otherwise, you will
waste a spot in your item list for this Key Item permanently as soon as you
obtain FuSoYa.


Pink Tail
---------
Value: Key Item
Notes: This item is a rare drop by the infamous PinkPuff/Flan Princess monster.
This monster is found in one particular area of the Lunar Subterrane in a
rare formation, which can be taken advantage of with the Alert/Siren item.
This is traded with the tail collector for the Adamant Armor. There is a small
caveat... not only will it take some luck to obtain the tail, but you can
only trade this item one at a time or the game will take every tail in
the trade (in other words, you lose out badly).


Lugae/Dr. Lugae/Lugeie's Key
----------------------------
Value: Key Item
Notes: This item is dropped after defeating some weird undead-ish version of
Dr. Lugae. It is used on the door of the Tower of Bab-il to start the Big
Cannon event.


Dark Matter
-----------
Value: Key Item
Notes: It is stolen from Zeromus in FF4 and FF4A, however it does nothing.
The myth about it reducing damage from Zeromus is not true. It is a placeholder
to allow you to steal something of no use.


Note: At this point, the item list changes for the different ports of the game.
Item #252 or 0xFC is different from here on in.


SNES Specific Data
------------------


Dummy - "undefined item"
-----
Value: Key Item
Notes: It's not used ever.


Dummy - "undefined item"
-----
Value: Key Item
Notes: It's not used ever.


-Sort-
------
Value: n/a
Notes: It's the sort button, really. It helps to move that to the top of the
item list for your own sake...


TrashCan
--------
Value: n/a
Note: This is where you go to dump/remove items.


GBA Specific Data
-----------------


Hand of the Gods
----------------
Attack Power: 0
Hit Rate: 90
Stat Modifiers: +15 Str, Agi, Sta
Elemental: Holy
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: Ghouls, Undead
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Yang
Value: 10
Notes: A group that includes Yang is required to face and defeat the Storm
Dragon in the Cave of Trials.


Apollo's Harp
-------------
Attack Power: 98
Hit Rate: 90
Stat Modifiers: +15 Str, Agi, Spr
Elemental: Fire
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: Dragons
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Edward
Value: 10
Notes: A group that includes Edward is required to face and defeat the Gigas
Worm in the Cave of Trials.


Triton's Dagger
---------------
Attack Power: 62
Hit Rate: 90
Stat Modifiers: +15 Int
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Metallic, Throwable
Item Spell: Flood, Spell Multiplier = 7
Equipped By: Palom
Value: 10
Notes: A group that includes Palom is required to face and defeat the Master
Flan in the Cave of Trials.


Seraphim's Mace
---------------
Attack Power: 50
Hit Rate: 70
Stat Modifiers: +15 Spr
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: Esuna, Spell Multiplier = 1
Equipped By: Porom
Value: 10
Notes: A group that includes Porom is required to face and defeat the T-Rex
in the Cave of Trials.


Thor's Hammer
-------------
Attack Power: 190
Hit Rate: 80
Stat Modifiers: +15 Str
Elemental: Lightning
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: Mechs
Other Properties: Metallic, Two-Handed
Item Spell: Blitz, Spell Multiplier = 7
Equipped By: Cid
Value: 10
Notes: A group that includes Cid is required to face and defeat the Death Mech
in the Cave of Trials.


Lightbringer Sword
------------------
Attack Power: 255
Hit Rate: 99
Stat Modifiers: +15 Str, Agi, Sta
Elemental: Holy
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: Ghouls, Undead
Other Properties: Metallic, Back Row Compatible
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Paladin Cecil
Value: 10
Notes: This weapon is Lunar Odin's treasure for Cecil when passing 5 of 5
Paladin trials in the Lunar Ruins. The weapon has a chance of casting Holy
on any target (the actual chance is currently unknown, probably 1/4 or 1/8)
with a regular attack in which the damage is directly connected to his Spirit
stat in the Magic Algo. It is possible to do 19998 damage in one turn under
the ideal circumstances.


Flandango Sword
---------------
Attack Power: 60
Hit Rate: 99
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: Flan/Pudding
Other Properties: Metallic
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Paladin Cecil
Value: 10
Notes: This weapon is Lunar Odin's treasure for Cecil when passing 4 for 5
Paladin trials in the Lunar Ruins. This weapon is ideal for killing all flan.


Caliburn Sword
--------------
Attack Power: 1
Hit Rate: 99
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Metallic, Throwable
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Paladin Cecil
Value: 10
Notes: This weapon is Lunar Odin's treasure for Cecil when passing 3 for 5
Paladin trials in the Lunar Ruins. This weapon is a hint that you've failed
miserably.


Abel's Lance
------------
Attack Power: 230
Hit Rate: 85
Stat Modifiers: +15 Str, Agi, Spr
Elemental: Lightning
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Metallic
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Kain
Value: 10
Notes: This weapon is given to Kain after the completion of his trial in the
Lunar Ruins. It will cast Tornado dependant on the level of the enemy (as far
as I can tell) when dealing a regular attack. This version of Tornado ignores
the Boss Bit. This is the only other spear/lance that does not have the Wind
elemental attribute...


Fiery Hammer
------------
Attack Power: 250
Hit Rate: 85
Stat Modifiers: +15 Str, Sta, Int, Spr
Elemental: Ice
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: Mechs
Other Properties: Metallic, Two-Handed
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Cid
Value: 10
Notes: This weapon is given to Cid after the completion of his trial in the
Lunar Ruins. Flare will randomly be cast for regular attacks (1/4 or 1/8 chance
is my guess) and its damage is dependant on his Intelligence. Plugging this
info into the Magic Algo will tell you that Cid's extra damage potential is
very limited. Strangely, this weapon is an ice elemental... although it
completes the set of elemental hammers for Cid.


Dragoon Gloves
--------------
Defense Power: 15
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 10
Magic Evasion: 8
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Kain
Value: Key Item
Notes: This item is given to Kain after the completion of his trial in the
Lunar Ruins. It will change Kain's Jump command into Double Jump.


Hanzo Gloves
------------
Defense Power: 15
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 8
Magic Evasion: 6
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Edge
Value: Key Item
Notes: This item is given to Edge after the completion of his trial in the
Lunar Ruins. It will change Edge's Steal command into Plunder.


Discipline Armlet
-----------------
Defense Power: 15
Evade Rate: 16
Magic Defense: 15
Magic Evasion: 10
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Yang
Value: Key Item
Notes: This item is given to Yang after the completion of his trial in the
Lunar Ruins. It will change Yang's Power command into Deadly.


White Ring
----------
Defense Power: 15
Evade Rate: 18
Magic Defense: 20
Magic Evasion: 15
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Rosa
Value: Key Item
Notes: This item is given to Rosa after rescuing all 13 villagers in her
trial at the Lunar Ruins. It will change Rosa's Pray command into Miracle.


Mist Ring
---------
Defense Power: 15
Evade Rate: 18
Magic Defense: 18
Magic Evasion: 15
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Young+Older Rydia
Value: Key Item
Notes: This item is given to Rydia after the completion of her trial in the
Lunar Ruins. It will allow her Mist Dragon summon to apply Image (1) to all
the characters.


Harmonious Ring
---------------
Defense Power: 15
Evade Rate: 20
Magic Defense: 20
Magic Evasion: 12
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Edward
Value: Key Item
Notes: This item is given to Edward after the completion of his trial in the
Lunar Ruins. It will change Edward's Sing command to Chant.


Twin Stars
----------
Defense Power: 15
Evade Rate: 20
Magic Defense: 20
Magic Evasion: 12
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Palom, Porom
Value: Key Item
Notes: A pair of these items are given to the twins after the completion of
their trial in the Lunar Ruins. It will allow the Twin command to select and
cast Double Meteor.


Grimoire LO
-----------
Status Effect: Poison? (vs Zeromus EG)
Elemental: Lightning (the game ignores this data)
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: all enemies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: n/a (No)
Solo Multiplier: n/a
Ignore Reflect: n/a (Yes)
Value: Key Item
Notes: Lunar Odin drops this item in Cecil's trial. Using this item
in battle will allow reentry to his trial. It will deal 9999 damage to any
enemy, including Zeromus. This item will inflict Poison against Zeromus EG.


Grimoire LL
-----------
Status Effect: n/a
Elemental: Lightning (the game ignores this data)
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: all enemies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: n/a (No)
Solo Multiplier: n/a
Ignore Reflect: n/a (Yes)
Value: Key Item
Notes: Lunar Leviathan drops this item in the Twins' trial. Using this item
in battle will allow reentry to that trial. It will deal 9999 damage to
any enemy, including Zeromus. This item casts Slow against Zeromus EG.


Grimoire LA
-----------
Status Effect: Poison? (vs Zeromus EG)
Elemental: Lightning (the game ignores this data)
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: all enemies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: n/a (No)
Solo Multiplier: n/a
Ignore Reflect: n/a (Yes)
Value: Key Item
Notes: Lunar Asura drops this item in Rosa's trial. Using this item
in battle will allow reentry to her trial. It will deal 9999 damage to any
enemy, including Zeromus. This item casts Poison against Zeromus EG.


Grimoire LS
-----------
Status Effect: Poison? (vs Zeromus EG)
Elemental: Lightning (the game ignores this data)
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: all enemies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: n/a (No)
Solo Multiplier: n/a
Ignore Reflect: n/a (Yes)
Value: Key Item
Notes: Lunar Shiva drops this item in Edward's trial. Using this item
in battle will allow reentry to his trial. It will deal 9999 damage to any
enemy, including Zeromus. This item casts Poison against Zeromus EG.


Grimoire LI
-----------
Status Effect: ? (vs Zeromus EG)
Elemental: Lightning (the game ignores this data)
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: all enemies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: n/a (No)
Solo Multiplier: n/a
Ignore Reflect: n/a (Yes)
Value: Key Item
Notes: Lunar Ifrit drops this item in Edge's trial. Using this item
in battle will allow reentry to his trial. It will deal 9999 damage to any
enemy, including Zeromus. This item uses a Death and Lightning graphics effect
against Zeromus EG.


Grimoire LR
-----------
Status Effect: Silence (vs Zeromus EG)
Elemental: Lightning (the game ignores this data)
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: all enemies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: n/a (No)
Solo Multiplier: n/a
Ignore Reflect: n/a (Yes)
Value: Key Item
Notes: Lunar Ramuh drops this item in Cid's trial. Using this item
in battle will allow reentry to his trial. It will deal 9999 damage to any
enemy, including Zeromus. This item inflicts "Silence" status on Zeromus EG,
which causes him to run a special script that forces him to scrap his default
script for a while and deal physical attacks primarily and as a magic counter.
Zeromus will counter with Curse against physical attacks.


Grimoire LT
-----------
Status Effect: Mini (vs Zeromus EG)
Elemental: Lightning (the game ignores this data)
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: all enemies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: n/a (No)
Solo Multiplier: n/a
Ignore Reflect: n/a (Yes)
Value: Key Item
Notes: Lunar Titan drops this item in Yang's trial. Using this item
in battle will allow reentry to his trial. It will deal 9999 damage to any
enemy, including Zeromus. This item inflicts Mini status on Zeromus EG.
It will make him run a special script and eventually he will recover from this
state.


Grimoire LB
-----------
Status Effect: Poison? (vs Zeromus EG)
Elemental: Lightning (the game ignores this data)
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: all enemies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: n/a (No)
Solo Multiplier: n/a
Ignore Reflect: n/a (Yes)
Value: Key Item
Notes: Lunar Bahamut drops this item in Kain's trial. Using this item
in battle will allow reentry to his trial. It will deal 9999 damage to any
enemy, including Zeromus. This will inflict Poison status on Zeromus EG.


Grimoire LD
-----------
Status Effect: Toad (vs Zeromus EG)
Elemental: Lightning (the game ignores this data)
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: all enemies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: n/a (No)
Solo Multiplier: n/a
Ignore Reflect: n/a (Yes)
Value: Key Item
Notes: Lunar Dragon drops this item in Rydia's trial. Using this item
in battle will allow reentry to his trial. It will deal 9999 damage to any
enemy, including Zeromus. Additionally, Image (1) status will be applied to
all the characters. This will only inflict Toad status on Zeromus EG.
It will make Zeromus EG run a special script and eventually he will recover
from this state.


Courageous Suit
---------------
Defense Power: 22
Evade Rate: 35
Magic Defense: 8
Magic Evasion: 2
Stat Modifiers: +10 Str, Agi, Sta
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: Curse
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Yang
Value: 10
Notes: This item can be found by searching the Cave of Trials. This is a good
source of Agility for Yang.


Red Jacket
----------
Defense Power: 21
Evade Rate: 30
Magic Defense: 12
Magic Evasion: 4
Stat Modifiers: +15 Str, Agi
Elemental: Fire, Ice (weakness)
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Edward
Value: 10
Notes: This item can be found by searching the Cave of Trials. Despite the
description, this makes Edward weaker for his trial....


Sage's Robe
-----------
Defense Power: 19
Evade Rate: 15
Magic Defense: 15
Magic Evasion: 18
Stat Modifiers: +10 Agi, Int
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: Silence
Resistant Against: Mages
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Palom
Value: 10
Notes: This item can be found by searching the Cave of Trials.


Lord's Robe
-----------
Defense Power: 19
Evade Rate: 15
Magic Defense: 18
Magic Evasion: 15
Stat Modifiers: +10 Sta, Spr
Elemental: Fire, Ice, Lightning
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Porom
Value: 10
Notes: This item can be found by searching the Cave of Trials. It may be
a good alternative than equipping the Protect Ring...


Grand Armor
-----------
Defense Power: 28
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 10
Magic Evasion: 8
Stat Modifiers: +15 Sta, Spr
Elemental: Lightning
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Cid
Value: 10
Notes: This item can be found by searching the Cave of Trials.


Funny Mask
----------
Defense Power: 8
Evade Rate: 16
Magic Defense: 3
Magic Evasion: 3
Stat Modifiers: +5 Str
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: Paralysis
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Yang
Value: 10
Notes: This item can be found by searching the Cave of Trials.


Red Cap
-------
Defense Power: 10
Evade Rate: 20
Magic Defense: 12
Magic Evasion: 12
Stat Modifiers: +10 Sta
Elemental: Fire, Ice (weakness)
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Edward
Value: 10
Notes: This item can be found by searching the Cave of Trials. This equipment
does not help Edward in his trial...


Coronet
-------
Defense Power: 7
Evade Rate: 18
Magic Defense: 16
Magic Evasion: 18
Stat Modifiers: +5 Int
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: Toad, Mini, Piggy
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Palom
Value: 10
Notes: This item can be found by searching the Cave of Trials.


Cat Hood
--------
Defense Power: 7
Evade Rate: 18
Magic Defense: 18
Magic Evasion: 16
Stat Modifiers: +5 Agi
Elemental: Ice, Fire (weakness)
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Porom
Value: 10
Notes: This item can be found by searching the Cave of Trials.


Grand Helm
----------
Defense Power: 14
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 10
Magic Evasion: 7
Stat Modifiers: +5 Agi, Spr
Elemental: Lightning
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Cid
Value: 10
Notes: This item can be found by searching the Cave of Trials.


*Note: Weapons with a * from beyond this point have weapon properties converted
into armor properties in the US and Jap 1.0 versions of this game.
Elemental attacks become elemental resistances, status attacks become status
resistances, and racial multipliers become racial resistances. These weapons
are fixed in the Euro and Jap 1.1 versions.


Nirvana Staff
-------------
Attack Power: 80
Hit Rate: 90
Stat Modifiers: +15 Sta, Spr
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: Reflect, Spell Multiplier = 1
Equipped By: Porom
Value: 10
Notes: This weapon can be found after defeating all the dolls in a room at
the Lunar Ruins. There is a bug in the US and Jap 1.0 revisions of FF4A where
you can get more than one of this item or the game freezes in attempting to
open the treasure box. Fortunately, this is fixed in the Euro and Jap 1.1
versions of this game.


Asura's Rod
-----------
Attack Power: 75
Hit Rate: 75
Stat Modifiers: +15 Int, Spr
Elemental: *Holy
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: Holy, Spell Multiplier = 2
Equipped By: Palom
Value: 10
Notes: This weapon can be found in the an area of the Lunar Ruins that looks
like the Cave of Summons.


Sasuke's Katana
---------------
Attack Power: 95
Hit Rate: 99
Stat Modifiers: +10 Agi, Sta
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Metallic, Throwable
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Edge
Value: 10
Notes: This weapon can be found in the annoying teleporting room of the Lunar
Ruins.


Mutsunokami
-----------
Attack Power: 100
Hit Rate: 99
Stat Modifiers: +10 Str, Spr
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Metallic, Throwable
Item Spell: Blink, Spell Multiplier = 1
Equipped By: Edge
Value: 10
Notes: This weapon can be found in the Giant of Bab-il passage of the Lunar
Ruins. The area mirrors the section where you fight the Last Arm monster in
a treasure chest.


Mist Whip
---------
Attack Power: 100
Hit Rate: 75
Stat Modifiers: +15 Int
Elemental: *Holy
Status Effect: *Paralyze
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Rydia
Value: 10
Notes: This weapon can be found in the area of the Lunar Ruins that looks like
the Mist Cave.


Perseus's Bow
-------------
Attack Power: 110, Effectively = 55
Hit Rate: 85
Stat Modifiers: +15 Spr
Elemental: *Wind
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Rosa
Value: 10
Notes: This weapon can be found in an area of the Lunar Ruins that uses the
Lunar Subterrane tileset that is infested with Crystal and Magic Dragons.


Perseus Arrow
-------------
Attack Power: 95
Hit Rate: 0
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible, Consumable
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Rosa
Value: 20000
Notes: You can buy this in the second (deeper leveled) Lunar Ruins shop.


Tiger Fang
----------
Attack Power: 0
Hit Rate: 90
Stat Modifiers: +10 Agi, Sta
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: *Paralyze
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Yang
Value: 450000
Notes: You can buy this in the second (deeper leveled) Lunar Ruins shop.


Dragon Claw
-----------
Attack Power: 0
Hit Rate: 90
Stat Modifiers: +10 Str, Spr
Elemental: *Holy
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: *Dragons
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Yang
Value: 10
Notes: This weapon can be found in the Lunar Ruins area that looks like part
of the Sylph Cave where you are close to finding the Sylph...


Loki's Lute
-----------
Attack Power: 150
Hit Rate: 99
Stat Modifiers: +15 Str, Agi, Sta
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: *Dragons, *Mechs, *Reptiles, *Ghouls, *Giants, *Mages,
*Undead
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible, Two-Handed
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Edward
Value: 10
Notes: This weapon can be found in the Lunar Ruins area that has a lot of
wooden bridges and Magic Dragons.


Rising Sun
----------
Attack Power: 85
Hit Rate: 85
Stat Modifiers: +10 Agi
Elemental: *Wind
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Edge
Value: 410000
Notes: You can buy this in the second (deeper leveled) Lunar Ruins shop.


Assassin Dagger (FF4A's version)
---------------
Attack Power: 130
Hit Rate: 99
Stat Modifiers: +15 Agi
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: *Death
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Metallic, Throwable
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Kain, Young+Older Rydia, Edward, Porom, Paladin Cecil
Value: 420000
Notes: You can buy this in the second (deeper leveled) Lunar Ruins shop.


Gigant Axe
----------
Attack Power: 200
Hit Rate: 75
Stat Modifiers: +15 Str
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: *Poison
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Metallic
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil, Cid
Value: 480000
Notes: You can buy this in the second (deeper leveled) Lunar Ruins shop.


Piggy's Stick (FF4A's version)
-------------
Attack Power: 150
Hit Rate: 99
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Status Effect: *Piggy
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: n/a
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Kain, Paladin Cecil
Value: 10
Notes: This can be found in the area of the Lunar Ruins that looks like the
Black Chocobo forest.


Hero's Shield
-------------
Defense Power: 20
Evade Rate: 55
Magic Defense: 20
Magic Evasion: 15
Stat Modifiers: +15 Str, Agi, Sta, Int, Spr
Elemental: Absorb
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Everyone except Dark Knight Cecil and FuSoYa
Value: 10
Notes: This is always dropped by the Brachioraidos. It is overpowered and
since the absorb algorithm was revamped for HP based attacks, it makes
Zeromus EG inferior. Like the Cursed Ring, this needs other equipment that
has elemental resistances to take advantage of the Absorb attribute.


Rainbow Robe
------------
Defense Power: 25
Evade Rate: 35
Magic Defense: 15
Magic Evasion: 10
Stat Modifiers: +10 Int
Elemental: Fire, Ice, Lightning, Holy
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Rydia
Value: 10
Notes: This item is found in an area of the Lunar Ruins with a small platform
that leads up to the treasure chest.


White Dress
-----------
Defense Power: 26
Evade Rate: 33
Magic Defense: 20
Magic Evasion: 18
Stat Modifiers: +10 Spr
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: Silence, Berserk
Resistant Against: Ghouls, Undead
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Rosa
Value: 10
Notes: This item is found in the waterfall puzzle area of the Lunar Ruins.
Despite being Rosa's "ultimate armor", it doesn't really address her poor
Agility growth.


Chocobo Suit
------------
Defense Power: 28
Evade Rate: 35
Magic Defense: 30
Magic Evasion: 15
Stat Modifiers: +15 Agi
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: Poison
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Palom
Value: 550000
Notes: You can buy this in the second (deeper leveled) Lunar Ruins shop.


Tabby Suit
----------
Defense Power: 28
Evade Rate: 40
Magic Defense: 30
Magic Evasion: 15
Stat Modifiers: +10 Agi, Sta
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: Poison
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Porom
Value: 560000
Notes: You can buy this in the second (deeper leveled) Lunar Ruins shop.


Maximilian Armor
----------------
Defense Power: 35
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 12
Magic Evasion: 8
Stat Modifiers: +10 Sta, Int, Spr
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: Stone, Slowing Petrify
Resistant Against: Mechs
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Cid
Value: 520000
Notes: You can buy this in the second (deeper leveled) Lunar Ruins shop.
The resistance against machines is virtually worthless.


Caesar's Plate
--------------
Defense Power: 32
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 14
Magic Evasion: 9
Stat Modifiers: +10 Spr
Elemental: Holy, Darkness
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Paladin Cecil
Value: 10
Notes: This item is found in the area of the Lunar Ruins where it looks like
you are at the peak of Mt. Ordeals... the hint is the door you dummies!
The Darkness elemental attribute isn't actually a factor in this game.


Dragoon Plate
-------------
Defense Power: 31
Evade Rate: 0
Magic Defense: 15
Magic Evasion: 10
Stat Modifiers: +10 Sta
Elemental: Fire, Ice, Lightning
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Kain
Value: 10
Notes: This item is found in the area of the Lunar Ruins where it looks like
you are in the earlier sections of the Sealed Cave. It's disappointing how
this isn't exactly like the Dragon Armor...


Assassin Vest
-------------
Defense Power: 29
Evade Rate: 90
Magic Defense: 20
Magic Evasion: 12
Stat Modifiers: +5 Str, Agi
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: Stone, Poison, Paralyze
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Edge
Value: 530000
Notes: You can buy this in the second (deeper leveled) Lunar Ruins shop.


Battle Gear
-----------
Defense Power: 29
Evade Rate: 40
Magic Defense: 12
Magic Evasion: 5
Stat Modifiers: +10 Str, Vit
Elemental: n/a
Status Immunity: Toad, Piggy, Curse
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: No
Equipped By: Yang
Value: 500000
Notes: You can buy this in the second (deeper leveled) Lunar Ruins shop.


Vishnu Vest
-----------
Defense Power: 30
Evade Rate: 50
Magic Defense: 15
Magic Evasion: 6
Stat Modifiers: +10 Str, Agi, Sta
Elemental: Fire, Ice, Lightning, Darkness, Holy
Status Immunity: n/a
Resistant Against: n/a
Metallic: Yes
Equipped By: Edward
Value: 10
Notes: This item can be found in the area of the Lunar Ruins with a long
stairway passage that leads into the treasure chest. Again, there's no
use for Darkness resistance in this game...


Scrap Metal
-----------
Attack Power: 1
Hit Rate: 99
Stat Modifiers: n/a
Elemental: Wind
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: n/a
Other Properties: Throwable, Metallic, Back Row Compatible
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: n/a
Value: 10
Notes: This weapon is Lunar Odin's treasure for Cecil when passing 1 for 5
Paladin trials in the Lunar Ruins. Clearly, you suck. The throw animation for
this item resembles the Shuriken, but the audio for that is not played.


Clear Water
-----------
Value: Key Item
Notes: This is used in a puzzle level to unlock doors...


Muddy Water
-----------
Value: Key Item
Notes: This is used in a puzzle level to unlock doors... although I've never
seen this item.


Honey
-----
Value: Key Item
Notes: This is used in a puzzle level to unlock doors...


Firewood
--------
Value: Key Item
Notes: This is used in a puzzle level to unlock doors...


Torch
-----
Value: Key Item
Notes: This is used in a puzzle level to unlock doors...


Doll
----
Value: Key Item
Notes: This is used in a puzzle level to unlock doors...


Raggedy Doll
------------
Value: Key Item
Notes: This is used in a puzzle level to unlock doors... although I've never
seen this item.


Key
---
Value: 10
Notes: This is found from drops by the custom "Palace Guard" monster in Edge's
trial. It is used to open certain doors in the trial.


Megalixir
---------
Status Effect: n/a
Elemental: n/a
Spell Power: n/a
Targeting: all allies
Hit Rate: 100
Boss Bit: n/a
Solo Multiplier: n/a
Ignore Reflect: n/a (Yes)
Value: 650000 (1)
Notes: This potion heals all HP and MP for every living character.


Bld-Skd Lance
-------------
Value: Key Item
Notes: This is found and removed in Kain's Trial.


Requirem Harp
-------------
Attack Power: 130
Hit Rate: 85
Stat Modifiers: -5 Str, Agi, Sta, Int, Spr
Elemental: *Drain
Status Effect: n/a
Effective Against: *Giants, *Flan/Pudding, *Undead!
Other Properties: Back Row Compatible, Two-Handed
Item Spell: n/a
Equipped By: Edward
Value: Key Item
Notes: This weapon would actually be pretty awesome, but its existence is
limited to Edward's trial. It is given and removed within that trial. It is
a symbolic weapon that isn't required to kill those spirits. Those spirits
die because of the command used.



------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Credits
-------

All this work and research would not have been possible without the help of
zyrothfar's editor. It's really nifty, but as of the current moment, it's still
a bit buggy, but lots of other FF4 research and testing was accomplished
with the help of this editor.

BSiron's original FF2 Algo FAQ is the most awesome thing written for this game
and even though it's mostly obsolete in some instances, it is the basis for
so many bits and pieces that have been derived and expanded upon...

I would like to thank Dragonsbrethren for tolerating me and answered questions
I had about FF4, before I even realized there was more to the game than what
I already knew after many many many years of playing this game.

I thank Lenophis for putting up with me. :P

JCE3000GT deserves special thanks for currently putting up a fairly good
FF2 hack for this game and getting me very interested. I would say that it is
the benchmark of all FF2/4 hacks to come.

I would also like to thank Phoenix to go look into the code to find and
verify stuff that have even yet to be documented (I'll have to get around to
it).

Entroper provided some nice datasheets for FF4A.

Paladin provided a nice datasheet for FF2/4, although there was a bunch of
data that finally confirms some stuff that was never quite finished for FF2/4.

There's this Japanese site with all the cool info I'd like to thank too... but
I can't read Japanese for the life of me, so bleh.

Also, whoever wrote and/or contributed to the Tower of Bab-il documents should
be thanked for providing quite of bit of insight to the internal game engine.

Others that I can't remember off the top of my head, I thank you too!

Whoever is hosting the forum with all the info that have been dug up and
researched, I thank you too.

I also thank and blame the idiots to make stupid unfounded statements about
this game. Only you people make me furious enough to prove you wrong.

I credit myself only because I selfishly want a better FF2/4 hack. :P

Thanks to J2e for producing a decent translation for FF4, even though they
don't seem to have any idea on battle mechanics and mislabeled certain
equipment descriptions (the Avenger Sword for one).

This guide would never have been possible without your help!

Thanks to CJayC for hosting this guide on Gamefaqs.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Version Reference
-----------------

1.00 - Initial version
1.01 - Minor tweaks...
1.50 - Initial version of hints, bugs, and equipment lists and fixed some stuff
1.51 - More tweaks...


Legally Boring
--------------

If there are any errors, please e-mail me. Outright stupid e-mail will be
ignored.

Feel free to distribute this guide anywhere outside of GameFAQs as long as
any/all of the content is not modified.

Updates will be found at GameFAQs.

DO NOT copy or plagiarize any portions of this guide as your work. If you wish
to use portions of text in your guide, you MUST reference this guide
as your source.

Copyright 2008 Deathlike2
